=== Flunisolide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 256)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Flunisolide is a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid available for intranasal use.

Routes: nasal; Common adult doses: 200 mcg (8 sprays) per nostril per day for Flunisolide Nasal Solution 0.025%.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anosmia, dysgeusia, dysosmia, epiphora, epistaxis, nasal congestion, nasal irritation, nasal septum perforation, pharyngitis, sneezing, cataracts, ocular hypertension, visual impairment, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Flunisolide is contraindicated in patients with status asthmaticus or other types of acute bronchospasm for which intensive therapy is warranted. Patients should be advised that flunisolide is not to be used as a bronchodilator and is not indicated for relief of acute bronchospasm.

Brand Names
  - Aerobid
  - Aerobid -M
  - Aerospan
  - Nasalide
  - Nasarel

Dosage Forms
  - Flunisolide 25mcg/1actuation Nasal spray, solution
  - Flunisolide Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Nasal dosage (nasal spray; e.g., Flunisolide Nasal Solution 0.025%)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults and Adolescents 15 years and older
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 50 mcg (2 sprays of 25 mcg/spray) in each nostril twice daily (total dose 200 mcg/day). If needed, this dose may be increased to 50 mcg (2 sprays of 25 mcg/spray) in each nostril 3 times a day (total dose 300 mcg/day). Max: 8 sprays/day in each nostril (total max dose 400 mcg/day).
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 14 years
        Dosage Description
        25 mcg (1 spray of 25 mcg/spray) in each nostril 3 times a day or 50 mcg (2 sprays of 25 mcg/spray) in each nostril 2 times a day (total dose 150 to 200 mcg/day). Max: 4 sprays/day in each nostril (total max dose 200 mcg/day).
    Heading
    For the management of symptoms of seasonal allergies or perennial allergies, including allergic rhinitis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Flunisolide is contraindicated in patients with status asthmaticus or other types of acute bronchospasm for which intensive therapy is warranted. Patients should be advised that flunisolide is not to be used as a bronchodilator and is not indicated for relief of acute bronchospasm. Flunisolide should be used with caution when substituting the drug for oral corticosteroid administration; deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have been reported in asthma patients during and following such a transfer. Patients receiving flunisolide require initiation or resumption of systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or during severe asthma attacks. Physicians should be notified immediately.
 
Although the risk of developing hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) suppression is very low with inhaled flunisolide, patients should, nevertheless, be monitored for this possibility.
 
Because glucocorticoids can produce or aggravate Cushing's syndrome, they should be avoided in patients with Cushing's disease. If HPA suppression occurs, patients will require systemic corticosteroids during periods of physiologic stress. If surgery is required, patients should notify all health care providers that they have received corticosteroids within the last 12 months. Because very little inhaled flunisolide reaches the systemic circulation, it should not be substituted for systemic corticosteroid administration. Deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have been reported in asthma patients during and following such a transfer.
 
Flunisolide nasal spray therapy is contraindicated in patients with untreated localized infection involving the nasal mucosa. Further, although patients receiving systemic corticosteroid therapy are more susceptible to secondary infection than patients not receiving corticosteroids, administration via the inhaled route minimizes this risk. Certain infections such as varicella and measles can be more serious in immunosuppressed patients. Corticosteroid therapy can reactivate tuberculosis and should not be used in patients with a history of active tuberculosis except when chemoprophylaxis is instituted concomitantly. Corticosteroids should also be avoided in patients with active herpes infection. Corticosteroid therapy can mask the symptoms of infection and should not be used in cases of viral or bacterial infections that are not adequately controlled by antiinfective agents, except in life-threatening circumstances. The effect of oral inhaled corticosteroids on immunity is less clear. The incidence or course of acute viral or bacterial infection is probably minimally affected by inhaled corticosteroids in immunocompetent individuals. Despite minimal effects on immune function, inhaled flunisolide should be used with caution in patients with ocular herpes simplex infections, tuberculosis, oral or nasal surgery or trauma, healing nasal septal ulcers, and untreated infection (viral, fungal or bacterial respiratory infections).
 
Corticosteroid therapy usually does not contraindicate vaccination with live-virus vaccines when such therapy is of short-term (= 2 weeks. Patients vaccinated while on immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated at least 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. In patients who have received high-dose, systemic corticosteroids for >= 2 weeks, it is recommended to wait at least 3 months after discontinuation of therapy before administering a live-virus vaccine.
 
The manufacturers state that flunisolide is not recommended for use in patients with systemic fungal infection. Inhaled corticosteroids should not be administered to patients with systemic infections unless appropriate chemotherapy is administered simultaneously.
 
Children receiving flunisolide oral inhalation or nasal spray therapy should be monitored routinely and closely for possible adverse effects on growth patterns. The safety and efficacy of the drug have not been determined for children under 6 years of age. For children > 6 years of age, maximum daily doses should not be exceeded in order to minimize the risk of systemic corticosteroid effect, including potential growth retardation. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal or inhalational corticosteroids, each child should be titrated to the lowest effective dose. The effects of prolonged treatment with these agents should be weighed against the clinical benefits obtained.
 
Detrimental effects on bone metabolism, such as osteoporosis are expected to be much lower with inhaled, rather than systemically-administered corticosteroids. Although not conclusive, some data suggest that high-dose inhaled steroids may also decrease bone formation and increased resorption. Some patients receiving inhaled steroids may be at increased risk of bone loss compared to healthy individuals. Prospective long-term trials are needed confirm these findings.
 
Flunisolide is classified in FDA pregnancy risk category C. Adequate and well-controlled studies regarding the use of flunisolide during pregnancy have not been done. Studies in animals have shown flunisolide to have teratogenic and fetotoxic effects. Low-dose inhaled corticosteroids are considered first line therapy for control of mild persistent asthma during pregnancy according to the 2004 guidelines of the National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) Asthma and Pregnancy Working Group. Data on the use of medium to high dose inhaled corticosteroid during pregnancy are limited. However, dose titration may be considered for those with moderate to severe persistent asthma, preferably using budesonide. Due to the availability of safety information during pregnancy, budesonide (FDA pregnancy category B) is preferred over other inhaled corticosteroid. However, there are no data to indicate safety concerns with other inhaled corticosteroids, and maintaining a previously established treatment regimen may be more beneficial to the patient. Selection of any pharmacologic treatment for asthma control during pregnancy should include the specific needs of the patient, based on an individual evaluation, and consideration of the potential benefits or risks to the fetus.
 
While not measured, the amount of flunisolide absorbed into the maternal bloodstream and excreted into breast-milk after oral or intranasal inhalation is expected to be low; reviewers and an expert panel consider inhaled corticosteroids acceptable to use during breast-feeding.
 
Clinical studies of flunisolide did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients >= 65 years of age to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between elderly and younger patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy.
 
Although true corticosteroid hypersensitivity is rare, patients who have demonstrated a prior hypersensitivity reaction to flunisolide should not receive any form of flunisolide. It is possible, though also rare, that such patients will display cross-hypersensitivity to other corticosteroids. It is advisable that patients who have a hypersensitivity reaction to any corticosteroid undergo skin testing, which, although not a conclusive predictor, may help to determine if hypersensitivity to another corticosteroid exists. Such patients should be carefully monitored during and following the administration of any corticosteroid.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    nasal septal ulceration, nasal surgery, nasal trauma
    General Information
    Corticosteroids may cause impaired wound healing; therefore, patients who have experienced recent nasal septal ulceration, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should not use a nasal corticosteroid until healing has occurred. Nasal septal perforation may occur in some patients using nasal corticosteroids. Patients who experience recurrent episodes of epistaxis (nosebleeds) or nasal septum discomfort while taking this medication should contact their physician for evaluation.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Intranasal corticosteroids have a low risk of systemic effects when used at recommended doses. When indicated, they can be used during pregnancy. There are no adequate, well-controlled studies of flunisolide use during human pregnancy. As with other corticosteroids, flunisolide has been shown to be teratogenic and fetotoxic in rabbits and rats at oral doses approximately 2 and 4 times, respectively, the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg/m2 basis.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Flunisolide is compatible with breast-feeding. Systemic exposure to intranasal corticosteroids is low, and the amounts that pass into human milk are expected to be minimal and unlikely to affect a breastfed child.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Intranasal corticosteroids have a low risk of systemic effects when used at recommended doses. When indicated, they can be used during pregnancy. There are no adequate, well-controlled studies of flunisolide use during human pregnancy. As with other corticosteroids, flunisolide has been shown to be teratogenic and fetotoxic in rabbits and rats at oral doses approximately 2 and 4 times, respectively, the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg/m2 basis.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Flunisolide is compatible with breast-feeding. Systemic exposure to intranasal corticosteroids is low, and the amounts that pass into human milk are expected to be minimal and unlikely to affect a breastfed child.

Interactions
Abatacept: (Moderate) Concomitant use of immunosuppressives, as well as long-term corticosteroids, may potentially increase the risk of serious infection in abatacept treated patients. Advise patients taking abatacept to seek immediate medical advice if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of infection.
Acarbose: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving antidiabetic agents closely for worsening glycemic control when corticosteroids are instituted and for signs of hypoglycemia when corticosteroids are discontinued. Systemic and inhaled corticosteroids are known to increase blood glucose and worsen glycemic control in patients taking antidiabetic agents. The main risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids are the dose of steroid and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Corticosteroids may increase the risk of hypokalemia if used concurrently with acetazolamide. Hypokalemia may be especially severe with prolonged use of corticotropin, ACTH. Monitor serum potassium levels to determine the need for potassium supplementation and/or alteration in drug therapy.
Aldesleukin, IL-2: (Major) Avoid coadministration of corticosteroids with aldesleukin. Corticosteroids can be immunosuppressive. Aldesleukin is an interleukin-2 lymphocyte growth factor which induces lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and interferon gamma production. Concomitant use may reduce the efficacy of aldesleukin.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazolidinedione use; a thiazolidinedione dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving antidiabetic agents closely for worsening glycemic control when corticosteroids are instituted and for signs of hypoglycemia when corticosteroids are discontinued. Systemic and inhaled corticosteroids are known to increase blood glucose and worsen glycemic control in patients taking antidiabetic agents. The main risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids are the dose of steroid and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Amifampridine: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
aMILoride: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Minor) Corticosteroids administered prior to or concomitantly with photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy may decrease the efficacy of the treatment.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Moderate) Monitor serum electrolytes and cardiac function during concomitant use. Corticosteroids have potassium-wasting effects and may potentiate hypokalemia during amphotericin B therapy and increase the risk for cardiac dysfunction. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and systemic corticosteroids was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Moderate) Monitor serum electrolytes and cardiac function during concomitant use. Corticosteroids have potassium-wasting effects and may potentiate hypokalemia during amphotericin B therapy and increase the risk for cardiac dysfunction. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and systemic corticosteroids was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure.
Amphotericin B: (Moderate) Monitor serum electrolytes and cardiac function during concomitant use. Corticosteroids have potassium-wasting effects and may potentiate hypokalemia during amphotericin B therapy and increase the risk for cardiac dysfunction. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and systemic corticosteroids was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure.
Antithymocyte Globulin: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of arsenic trioxide and corticosteroids as electrolyte imbalance caused by corticosteroids may increase the risk of QT prolongation with arsenic trioxide.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi: (Moderate) Concomitant use of L-asparaginase with corticosteroids can result in additive hyperglycemia. L-Asparaginase transiently inhibits insulin production contributing to hyperglycemia seen during concurrent corticosteroid therapy. Insulin therapy may be required in some cases. Administration of L-asparaginase after rather than before corticosteroids reportedly has produced fewer hypersensitivity reactions.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
azaTHIOprine: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Basiliximab: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids have immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and loop diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and loop diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for seizure activity during concomitant bupropion and corticosteroid use. Bupropion is associated with a dose-related seizure risk; concomitant use of other medications that lower the seizure threshold, such as systemic corticosteroids, increases the seizure risk.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for seizure activity during concomitant bupropion and corticosteroid use. Bupropion is associated with a dose-related seizure risk; concomitant use of other medications that lower the seizure threshold, such as systemic corticosteroids, increases the seizure risk.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Corticosteroids may cause protein breakdown, which could lead to elevated blood ammonia concentrations, especially in patients with an impaired ability to form urea. Corticosteroids should be used with caution in patients receiving treatment for hyperammonemia.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Carmustine, BCNU: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Chlorambucil: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Cladribine: (Minor) Concurrent use of purine analogs with other agents which cause bone marrow or immune suppression such as other antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives may result in additive effects.
Clofarabine: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Denosumab: (Moderate) The safety and efficacy of denosumab use in patients with immunosuppression have not been evaluated. Patients receiving immunosuppressives along with denosumab may be at a greater risk of developing an infection.
Desmopressin: (Contraindicated) Desmopressin is contraindicated in patients at increased risk of severe hyponatremia. Hyponatremia was observed in nocturia clinical trials in patients receiving inhaled or systemic corticosteroids with desmopressin. If concomitant use is necessary, ensure appropriate harm mitigation strategies, such as adequate sodium monitoring, are in place especially for patients with additional risk factors for hyponatremia.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for seizure activity during concomitant bupropion and corticosteroid use. Bupropion is associated with a dose-related seizure risk; concomitant use of other medications that lower the seizure threshold, such as systemic corticosteroids, increases the seizure risk.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dofetilide: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Caution is advised when using droperidol in combination with corticosteroids which may lead to electrolyte abnormalities, especially hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, as such abnormalities may increase the risk for QT prolongation or cardiac arrhythmias.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and incretin mimetic use; an incretin mimetic dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Echinacea: (Moderate) Echinacea possesses immunostimulatory activity and may theoretically reduce the response to immunosuppressant drugs like corticosteroids. For some patients who are using corticosteroids for serious illness, such as cancer or organ transplant, this potential interaction may result in the preferable avoidance of Echinacea. Although documentation is lacking, coadministration of echinacea with immunosuppressants is not recommended by some resources.
Econazole: (Minor) In vitro studies indicate that corticosteroids inhibit the antifungal activity of econazole against C. albicans in a concentration-dependent manner. When the concentration of the corticosteroid was equal to or greater than that of econazole on a weight basis, the antifungal activity of econazole was substantially inhibited. When the corticosteroid concentration was one-tenth that of econazole, no inhibition of antifungal activity was observed.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids. Decreased blood concentrations and lessened physiologic activity may necessitate an increase in corticosteroid dosage.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids. Decreased blood concentrations and lessened physiologic activity may necessitate an increase in corticosteroid dosage.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Esterified Estrogens: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Estramustine: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Estrogens: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and loop diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and loop diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and incretin mimetic use; an incretin mimetic dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Fludarabine: (Minor) Concurrent use of purine analogs with other agents which cause bone marrow or immune suppression such as other antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives may result in additive effects.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and loop diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and loop diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and sulfonylurea use; a sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and sulfonylurea use; a sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and sulfonylurea use; a sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and sulfonylurea use; a sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and sulfonylurea use; a sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Glycerol Phenylbutyrate: (Moderate) Corticosteroids may induce elevated blood ammonia concentrations. Corticosteroids should be used with caution in patients receiving glycerol phenylbutyrate. Monitor ammonia concentrations closely.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of haloperidol and corticosteroids as electrolyte imbalance caused by corticosteroids may increase the risk of QT prolongation with haloperidol.
Hemin: (Moderate) Hemin works by inhibiting aminolevulinic acid synthetase. Corticosteroids increase the activity of this enzyme should not be used with hemin.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Hydroxyurea: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and incretin mimetic use; an incretin mimetic dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Inebilizumab: (Moderate) Concomitant usage of inebilizumab with immunosuppressant drugs, including systemic corticosteroids, may increase the risk of infection. Consider the risk of additive immune system effects when coadministering therapies that cause immunosuppression with inebilizumab.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and incretin mimetic use; an incretin mimetic dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and incretin mimetic use; an incretin mimetic dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The risk of cardiac toxicity with isoproterenol in asthma patients appears to be increased with the coadministration of corticosteroids. Intravenous infusions of isoproterenol in refractory asthmatic children at rates of 0.05 to 2.7 mcg/kg/min have caused clinical deterioration, myocardial infarction (necrosis), congestive heart failure and death.
ISOtretinoin: (Minor) Both isotretinoin and corticosteroids can cause osteoporosis during chronic use. Patients receiving systemic corticosteroids should receive isotretinoin therapy with caution.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and incretin mimetic use; an incretin mimetic dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and incretin mimetic use; an incretin mimetic dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Lomustine, CCNU: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Lonapegsomatropin: (Moderate) Corticosteroids can retard bone growth and therefore, can inhibit the growth-promoting effects of somatropin. If corticosteroid therapy is required, the corticosteroid dose should be carefully adjusted.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and loop diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and loop diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Mannitol: (Moderate) Corticosteroids may accentuate the electrolyte loss associated with diuretic therapy resulting in hypokalemia. Also, corticotropin may cause calcium loss and sodium and fluid retention. Mannitol itself can cause hypernatremia. Close monitoring of electrolytes should occur in patients receiving these drugs concomitantly.
Mecasermin, Recombinant, rh-IGF-1: (Moderate) Additional monitoring may be required when coadministering systemic or inhaled corticosteroids and mecasermin, recombinant, rh-IGF-1. In animal studies, corticosteroids impair the growth-stimulating effects of growth hormone (GH) through interference with the physiological stimulation of epiphyseal chondrocyte proliferation exerted by GH and IGF-1. Dexamethasone administration on long bone tissue in vitro resulted in a decrease of local synthesis of IGF-1. Similar counteractive effects are expected in humans. If systemic or inhaled glucocorticoid therapy is required, the steroid dose should be carefully adjusted and growth rate monitored.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving antidiabetic agents closely for worsening glycemic control when corticosteroids are instituted and for signs of hypoglycemia when corticosteroids are discontinued. Systemic and inhaled corticosteroids are known to increase blood glucose and worsen glycemic control in patients taking antidiabetic agents. The main risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids are the dose of steroid and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Minor) Concurrent use of purine analogs with other agents which cause bone marrow or immune suppression such as other antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives may result in additive effects.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Corticosteroids may increase the risk of hypokalemia if used concurrently with methazolamide. Hypokalemia may be especially severe with prolonged use of corticotropin, ACTH. Monitor serum potassium levels to determine the need for potassium supplementation and/or alteration in drug therapy. The chronic use of corticosteroids may augment calcium excretion with methazolamide leading to increased risk for hypocalcemia and/or osteoporosis.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
metyraPONE: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of nasal or inhaled corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Micafungin: (Moderate) Leukopenia, neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia have been associated with micafungin. Patients who are taking immunosuppressives such as the corticosteroids with micafungin concomitantly may have additive risks for infection or other side effects. In a pharmacokinetic trial, micafungin had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of prednisolone. Acute intravascular hemolysis and hemoglobinuria was seen in a healthy volunteer during infusion of micafungin (200 mg) and oral prednisolone (20 mg). This reaction was transient, and the subject did not develop significant anemia.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is contraindicated in patients on long-term corticosteroid therapy and mifepristone for Cushing's disease or other chronic conditions is contraindicated in patients who require concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids for life-saving purposes, such as serious medical conditions or illnesses (e.g., immunosuppression after organ transplantation). For other situations where corticosteroids are used for treating non-life threatening conditions, mifepristone may lead to reduced corticosteroid efficacy and exacerbation or deterioration of such conditions. This is because mifepristone exhibits antiglucocorticoid activity that may antagonize corticosteroid therapy and the stabilization of the underlying corticosteroid-treated illness. Mifepristone may also cause adrenal insufficiency, so patients receiving corticosteroids for non life-threatening illness require close monitoring. Because serum cortisol levels remain elevated and may even increase during treatment with mifepristone, serum cortisol levels do not provide an accurate assessment of hypoadrenalism. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, If adrenal insufficiency occurs, stop mifepristone treatment and administer systemic glucocorticoids without delay; high doses may be needed to treat these events. Factors considered in deciding on the duration of glucocorticoid treatment should include the long half-life of mifepristone (85 hours).
Miglitol: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving antidiabetic agents closely for worsening glycemic control when corticosteroids are instituted and for signs of hypoglycemia when corticosteroids are discontinued. Systemic and inhaled corticosteroids are known to increase blood glucose and worsen glycemic control in patients taking antidiabetic agents. The main risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids are the dose of steroid and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
mitoXANTRONE: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Natalizumab: (Major) Ordinarily, patients receiving chronic immunosuppressant therapy should not be treated with natalizumab. Treatment recommendations for combined corticosteroid therapy are dependent on the underlying indication for natalizumab therapy. Corticosteroids should be tapered in those patients with Crohn's disease who are on chronic corticosteroids when they start natalizumab therapy, as soon as a therapeutic benefit has occurred. If the patient cannot discontinue systemic corticosteroids within 6 months, discontinue natalizumab. The concomitant use of natalizumab and corticosteroids may further increase the risk of serious infections, including progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, over the risk observed with use of natalizumab alone. In multiple sclerosis (MS) clinical trials, an increase in infections was seen in patients concurrently receiving short courses of corticosteroids. However, the increase in infections in natalizumab-treated patients who received steroids was similar to the increase in placebo-treated patients who received steroids. Short courses of steroid use during natalizumab, such as when they are needed for MS relapse treatment, appear to be acceptable for use concurrently.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving antidiabetic agents closely for worsening glycemic control when corticosteroids are instituted and for signs of hypoglycemia when corticosteroids are discontinued. Systemic and inhaled corticosteroids are known to increase blood glucose and worsen glycemic control in patients taking antidiabetic agents. The main risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids are the dose of steroid and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Nelarabine: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Neostigmine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents, such as neostigmine, and systemic corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating systemic corticosteroid therapy.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents, such as neostigmine, and systemic corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating systemic corticosteroid therapy.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Ofatumumab: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofatumumab with corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection. Ofatumumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, including immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and incretin mimetic use; an incretin mimetic dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Pegaspargase: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glucocorticoid-related adverse reactions such as hyperglycemia and osteonecrosis during concomitant use of pegaspargase and glucocorticoids.
penicillAMINE: (Major) Agents such as immunosuppressives have adverse reactions similar to those of penicillamine. Concomitant use of penicillamine with these agents is contraindicated because of the increased risk of developing severe hematologic and renal toxicity.
Pentostatin: (Minor) Concurrent use of purine analogs with other agents which cause bone marrow or immune suppression such as other antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives may result in additive effects.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Minor) Corticosteroids administered prior to or concomitantly with photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy may decrease the efficacy of the treatment.
PHYSostigmine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents, such as physostigmine, and systemic corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, withdraw anticholinesterase inhibitors at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy.
Pimozide: (Moderate) According to the manufacturer of pimozide, the drug should not be coadministered with drugs known to cause electrolyte imbalances, such as high-dose, systemic corticosteroid therapy. Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), and electrolyte imbalances (e.g., hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia) may increase the risk of life-threatening arrhythmias. Pimozide is contraindicated in patients with known hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia. Topical corticosteroids are less likely to interact.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazolidinedione use; a thiazolidinedione dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and sulfonylurea use; a sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazolidinedione use; a thiazolidinedione dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and metformin use; a metformin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazolidinedione use; a thiazolidinedione dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving antidiabetic agents closely for worsening glycemic control when corticosteroids are instituted and for signs of hypoglycemia when corticosteroids are discontinued. Systemic and inhaled corticosteroids are known to increase blood glucose and worsen glycemic control in patients taking antidiabetic agents. The main risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids are the dose of steroid and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be increased in patient receiving corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone. Monitor patients for increased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor blood sugar during concomitant corticosteroid and propranolol use due to risk for hypoglycemia. Concurrent use may increase risk of hypoglycemia because of loss of the counter-regulatory cortisol response.
Purine analogs: (Minor) Concurrent use of purine analogs with other agents which cause bone marrow or immune suppression such as other antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives may result in additive effects.
pyRIDostigmine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents, such as pyridostigmine, and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving antidiabetic agents closely for worsening glycemic control when corticosteroids are instituted and for signs of hypoglycemia when corticosteroids are discontinued. Systemic and inhaled corticosteroids are known to increase blood glucose and worsen glycemic control in patients taking antidiabetic agents. The main risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids are the dose of steroid and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
riTUXimab: (Moderate) Rituximab and corticosteroids are commonly used together; however, monitor the patient for immunosuppression and signs and symptoms of infection during combined chronic therapy.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Rituximab and corticosteroids are commonly used together; however, monitor the patient for immunosuppression and signs and symptoms of infection during combined chronic therapy.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Sargramostim, GM-CSF: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sargramostim and systemic corticosteroid agents due to the risk of additive myeloproliferative effects. If coadministration of these drugs is required, frequently monitor patients for clinical and laboratory signs of excess myeloproliferative effects (e.g., leukocytosis). Sargramostim is a recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor that works by promoting proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor cells.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if corticosteroids are used with estrogens. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of corticosteroids. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic clearance of corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and incretin mimetic use; an incretin mimetic dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use; a DPP-4 dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Sodium Benzoate; Sodium Phenylacetate: (Moderate) Corticosteroids may cause protein breakdown, which could lead to elevated blood ammonia concentrations, especially in patients with an impaired ability to form urea. Corticosteroids should be used with caution in patients receiving treatment for hyperammonemia.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Somapacitan: (Moderate) Patients treated with glucocorticoid replacement for hypoadrenalism may require an increase in their maintenance or stress steroid doses following initiation of somapacitan. Monitor for signs/symptoms of reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Growth hormone (GH) inhibits 11betaHSD-1. Consequently, patients with untreated GH deficiency have relative increases in 11betaHSD-1 and serum cortisol. The initiation of somapacitan may result in inhibition of 11betaHSD-1 and reduced serum cortisol concentrations.
Somatrogon: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in serum cortisol concentrations and corticosteroid efficacy during concurrent use of corticosteroids and somatrogon. Patients treated with glucocorticoid replacement for hypoadrenalism may require an increase in their maintenance or stress steroid doses following initiation of somatrogon. Additionally, supraphysiologic glucocorticoid treatment may attenuate the growth promoting effects of somatrogon. Carefully adjust glucocorticoid replacement dosing to avoid hypoadrenalism and an inhibitory effect on growth.
Somatropin, rh-GH: (Moderate) Corticosteroids can retard bone growth and therefore, can inhibit the growth-promoting effects of somatropin. If corticosteroid therapy is required, the corticosteroid dose should be carefully adjusted.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Spironolactone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and sulfonylurea use; a sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Testosterone: (Moderate) Monitor for fluid retention during concurrent corticosteroid and testosterone use. Concurrent use may result in increased fluid retention.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazolidinedione use; a thiazolidinedione dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Minor) Concurrent use of purine analogs with other agents which cause bone marrow or immune suppression such as other antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives may result in additive effects.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and incretin mimetic use; an incretin mimetic dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and loop diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and loop diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Triamterene: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Vigabatrin: (Major) Vigabatrin should not be used with corticosteroids, which are associated with serious ophthalmic effects (e.g., retinopathy or glaucoma) unless the benefit of treatment clearly outweighs the risks.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for potential adrenal dysfunction with concomitant use of voriconazole and flunisolide. In patients taking corticosteroids, voriconazole-associated CYP3A4 inhibition of their metabolism may lead to corticosteroid excess and adrenal suppression. Corticosteroid exposure is likely to be increased. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, and flunisolide is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Monitor the INR if warfarin is administered with corticosteroids. The effect of corticosteroids on warfarin is variable. There are reports of enhanced as well as diminished effects of anticoagulants when given concurrently with corticosteroids; however, limited published data exist, and the mechanism of the interaction is not well described. High-dose corticosteroids appear to pose a greater risk for increased anticoagulant effect. In addition, corticosteroids have been associated with a risk of peptic ulcer and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Zafirlukast inhibits the CYP3A4 isoenzymes and should be used cautiously in patients stabilized on drugs metabolized by CYP3A4, such as corticosteroids.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The most common adverse nasopharyngeal effects following nasal inhalation of flunisolide are nasal irritation (Nasalide 44%; Nasarel 13%) and itching, increased cough, nausea/vomiting, pharyngitis, nasal congestion, aftertaste (Nasalide 8%; Nasarel 17%), sneezing, nasal burning, bloody nasal secretions, and nasal dryness. Other adverse effects associated with intranasal flunisolide include headache, dizziness, watery eyes (epiphora), abnormal sense of smell (dysosmia), nasal ulcer, and abdominal bloating. Rarely, nasal septum perforation has been reported with the use of nasally inhaled corticosteroids. In addition, temporary or permanent loss of the sense of smell (anosmia) and taste have been reported with the use of flunisolide nasal sprays. Possible adverse nasopharyngeal effects following oral inhalation of flunisolide include flushing, xerostomia (dry mouth), urticaria, hoarseness, tongue and mouth irritation, and dysgeusia.
 
Local immunosuppression associated with inhaled flunisolide use may be manifested as an overgrowth of fungus in the nose, mouth, and throat. Oral candidiasis (thrush) is a well-known adverse reaction of oral inhalation steroid therapy. The incidence (4—13%) is correlated with daily dose, and appears to occur less frequently in children. Using an add-on spacer device, reducing the frequency of use, and rinsing the mouth following use may minimize the incidence of oropharyngeal thrush.
 
Bronchospasm may occur after administration of inhaled corticosteroids. Inhalation of corticosteroids can occasionally trigger mild cough or wheezing, probably because of upper airway irritation caused by propellants and detergents mixed with the corticosteroid. If there is an immediate increase in wheezing following dosing of an inhaled corticosteroid, treatment with a fast-acting inhaled bronchodilator should be initiated immediately and corticosteroid inhalation therapy discontinued. These effects can be reduced by pretreating with a bronchodilator or using an add-on spacing device.
 
Pulmonary infiltrates with eosinophilia may occur with inhaled flunisolide. The cause is unknown but is usually manifest when inhalation corticosteroid therapy replaces systemic corticosteroid therapy.
 
Inhaled corticosteroid therapy has been associated with the development of cataracts in adults. The risk of cataracts increases with long-term and high-dose inhaled corticosteroid use. The mechanism of corticosteroid-induced cataract formation is uncertain but may involve disruption of sodium-potassium pumps in the lens epithelium leading to accumulation of water in lens fibers and agglutination of lens proteins.
 
Dysphonia (hoarseness) has been reported in 5—50% of patients receiving inhaled corticosteroids. It is thought to be due to dyskinesia of the muscles controlling vocal cord tension. Elimination of voice strain, rinsing of the mouth after inhaler use, and the use of a spacing device may hasten recovery, but in some cases, a temporary withdrawal of the corticosteroid is necessary.
 
Nasal corticosteroids can cause impaired wound healing in patients who have experienced recent nasal septal ulcers, recurrent epistaxis, nasal surgery or trauma. Flunisolide should be used with caution until healing has occurred.
 
Pharmacologic doses of corticosteroids administered for prolonged periods can result in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) suppression. Exogenously administered corticosteroids exert negative feedback on the pituitary, inhibiting the secretion of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH). This results in a decrease in ACTH-mediated synthesis of endogenous corticosteroids and androgens by the adrenal cortex. The severity of glucocorticoid-induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency varies among individuals and is dependent on the dose, frequency, time of administration, and duration of therapy. To date, HPA suppression has not been observed with typical doses of inhaled flunisolide, but larger doses can suppress HPA function. Additionally, use of inhaled corticosteroids with systemic corticosteroids could increase the likelihood of HPA suppression compared to a therapeutic dose of either one alone.
 
Controlled clinical trials have shown that intranasal or orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause growth inhibition in pediatric patients. Growth inhibition has been observed in the absence of laboratory evidence of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) suppression, suggesting that growth velocity is a more sensitive indicator of systemic corticosteroid exposure in pediatric patients. With orally inhaled corticosteroids, the mean reduction in growth velocity is approximately one centimeter per year (range 0.3—1.8 cm per year) and appears to be related to the dose and duration of exposure. The National Asthma Education and Prevention Program Expert Panel warns that although the use of low and medium dose inhaled corticosteroids is generally safe, prolonged use (e.g., > 1 year) of high doses of inhaled corticosteroids, especially when used in combination with frequent courses of systemic corticosteroids, may increase the risk of adverse growth effects. The long-term effects of this reduction in growth velocity, including the impact on final adult height, are unknown. To minimize the effects of intranasal or orally inhaled corticosteroids, each patient should be titrated to the lowest effective dose.
 
The National Asthma Education and Prevention Program Expert Panel warns that prolonged use (e.g., > 1 year) of high doses of inhaled corticosteroids, especially when used in combination with frequent courses of systemic corticosteroids, may be associated with reduced bone mineral density, which may increase the risk of osteoporosis.
 
Purpura or easy bruising has been associated with high dose inhaled corticosteroids. In one survey of about 202 patients receiving inhaled corticosteroids and 204 controls, easy bruising was reported twice as often in the group receiving inhaled corticosteroids (47 vs 22%). The risk apparently increases with age, dose and duration of inhaler use.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anosmia, dysgeusia, dysosmia, epiphora, epistaxis, nasal congestion, nasal irritation, nasal septum perforation, pharyngitis, sneezing
    General Information
    The most common adverse nasopharyngeal effects after nasal inhalation of flunisolide are mild, transient nasal burning and stinging (45%). The incidence of nasal burning and stinging decreased with increasing duration of treatment. Other side effects reported at a frequency of 5% or less were: nasal irritation, nasal congestion, sneezing, epistaxis and/or bloody nasal secretions, watery eyes (epiphora), and sore throat (pharyngitis). Rarely, nasal septum perforation has been reported with the use of nasally inhaled corticosteroids. Temporary or permanent change or loss of the sense of smell (anosmia or dysosmia) or temporary change or loss of taste (dysgeusia) have also been reported with the use of flunisolide nasal spray.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anosmia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysosmia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      epiphora
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal septum perforation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sneezing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    candidiasis, infection
    General Information
    Secondary infection has been associated with all dosage forms of flunisolide. Rare cases of nasal and oral candidiasis have been reported in patients treated with flunisolide nasal spray. Generally, if oropharyngeal candidiasis develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic antifungal therapy while continuing treatment with flunisolide; however, at times, flunisolide therapy may need to be interrupted.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      candidiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    impaired wound healing
    General Information
    Nasal corticosteroids, like flunisolide, can cause impaired wound healing in patients who have experienced recent nasal septal ulcers, recurrent epistaxis, nasal surgery, or trauma. Nasal flunisolide should be used with caution until healing has occurred.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impaired wound healing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    During clinical trials, adverse effects associated with intranasal flunisolide include headache (5% or less) and dizziness.
    Headline
    nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Adverse effects associated with intranasal flunisolide during clinical trials included nausea (5% or less)  and vomiting (5% or less).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cataracts, ocular hypertension, visual impairment
    General Information
    Rare instances of cataracts, glaucoma, and increased intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension) have been reported following the intranasal and inhalational use of corticosteroids. Consider referral to an ophthalmologist in patients who complain of visual impairment or who use flunisolide nasal spray long term.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cataracts
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) suppression, increased intracranial pressure
    General Information
    Pharmacologic doses of corticosteroids, like flunisolide, administered for prolonged periods can result in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) suppression. Exogenously administered corticosteroids exert negative feedback on the pituitary, inhibiting the secretion of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH). This results in a decrease in ACTH-mediated synthesis of endogenous corticosteroids and androgens by the adrenal cortex. The severity of glucocorticoid-induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency varies among individuals and is dependent on the dose, frequency, time of administration, and duration of therapy. The use of intranasal flunisolide at doses over twice the recommended dose for up to 10 days led to evidence of decreased endogenous cortisol production. The use of intranasal corticosteroids with systemic corticosteroids could also increase the likelihood of HPA suppression compared to a therapeutic dose of either one alone. Adrenal suppression and increased intracranial pressure have been reported with the use and/or withdrawal of intranasal steroids in pediatric patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) suppression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      increased intracranial pressure
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    growth inhibition
    General Information
    Controlled clinical trials have shown that intranasal corticosteroids, like flunisolide, may cause growth inhibition in pediatric patients. Growth inhibition has been observed in the absence of laboratory evidence of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, suggesting that growth velocity is a more sensitive indicator of systemic corticosteroid exposure in pediatric patients. Routinely monitor the growth of pediatric patients. The long-term effects of this reduction in growth velocity, including the impact on final adult height, are unknown. To minimize the effects of intranasal corticosteroids, titrate each patient to the lowest effective dose.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      growth inhibition
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the intranasal administration of corticosteroids. Immediate or delayed hypersensitivity reactions, such as anaphylactoid reactions, urticaria, angioedema, or rash (unspecified) have been rarely reported with the use of these drugs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Flunisolide is a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid available for intranasal use. The anti-inflammatory and vasoconstrictive effects of nasal flunisolide are beneficial for relieving symptoms associated with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis and the nasal sprays are used in adult and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older.Rhinitis guidelines strongly recommend intranasal corticosteroids as the preferred medication when choosing monotherapy for persistent allergic rhinitis; they may also be offered as first-line therapy for nonallergic rhinitis (NAR) although intranasal antihistamines are strongly recommended as a first-line monotherapy option for NAR.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Intranasal administration of flunisolide provides relief of watery rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, postnasal drip, sneezing, and pharyngeal itching. Glucocorticoids are naturally occurring hormones that prevent or suppress inflammation and immune responses when administered at pharmacological doses. At a molecular level, unbound glucocorticoids readily cross cell membranes and bind with high affinity to specific cytoplasmic receptors. Ultimately, transcription and protein synthesis are affected. Additional actions can include inhibition of leukocyte infiltration at the site of inflammation, interference in the function of mediators of inflammatory response, and suppression of humoral immune responses. Some of the net effects include a reduction in edema or scar tissue and a general suppression in the immune response. The anti-inflammatory actions of corticosteroids are thought to involve phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins, collectively called lipocortins. Lipocortins, in turn, control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of the precursor molecule arachidonic acid. The degree of clinical effect normally is related to the dose administered. Likewise, the numerous adverse effects related to corticosteroid use usually depend on the dose administered and the duration of therapy although when administered by inhalation, systemic adverse effects are minimal.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    Intranasal Route
Nasal doses of flunisolide are approximately 50% absorbed into the systemic circulation, with peak plasma concentrations occurring within 10 to 30 minutes. Some flunisolide nasal sprays differ in their total absorption and peak plasma concentrations; however, this is unlikely to be clinically significant because the therapeutic effects of the drug are localized and overall, the systemic concentrations are low. The distribution kinetics of a nasal dose of flunisolide are not known. A therapeutic response usually is noted within a few days but can take as long as 4 weeks. The drug is not stored to any extent in the tissues.
  Text
  Flunisolide is administered by nasal spray. Any flunisolide that reaches the GI tract or the liver is metabolized to several metabolites, one of which exerts some glucocorticoid activity. All compounds are eventually metabolized by the liver into inactive metabolites. Flunisolide is not stored to any extent in the tissues. Although the excretion of an inhaled dose of flunisolide has not been described, oral or IV administration reveals that systemic flunisolide is excreted equally in the urine and the feces. The plasma half-life of flunisolide is approximately 1.8 to 2 hours, however, as is the case with other glucocorticoids, the biological duration of action is much longer.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intranasal Inhalation Administration
      Description
      Flunisolide nasal spray solution 0.025%:
Before using for the first time the unit must be primed. Keep the sprayer pointed away from patient, other people, and pets.
 Pump the activator 7 or 8 times until a fine wide spray appears. If the unit has not been used for 48 hours, re-prime by pumping the activator once or twice.
Instruct patient on the proper use of the nasal spray. If a second dose is needed, use the other nostril.
After administration, rinse the tip of the spray bottle with hot water, taking care not to suck water into the bottle, and dry with a clean tissue. Replace the cap right after cleaning.
To avoid the spread of infection, do not use the nasal inhaler in more than 1 person.
    Name
    Inhalation Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    200 mcg (8 sprays) per nostril per day for Flunisolide Nasal Solution 0.025%.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    200 mcg (8 sprays) per nostril per day for Flunisolide Nasal Solution 0.025%.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    15 years and older: 200 mcg (8 sprays) per nostril per day for Flunisolide Nasal Solution 0.025%.
13 to 14 years: 100 mcg (4 sprays) per nostril per day for Flunisolide Nasal Solution 0.025%.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    6 to 12 years: 100 mcg (4 sprays) per nostril per day for Flunisolide Nasal Solution 0.025%.
5 years and younger: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
