=== Aspirin/Omeprazole — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 4905)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aspirin; omeprazole is a combination of aspirin, an antiplatelet agent, and omeprazole, a proton pump inhibitor, for patients who require aspirin for secondary prevention of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events and who are at risk of developing aspirin-associated gastric ulcers.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 325 mg aspirin; 40 mg omeprazole.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): candidiasis, colitis, gastric polyps, gi bleeding, gi obstruction, gi perforation, peptic ulcer, stool discoloration, cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, jaundice, pancreatitis, angina, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypotension, palpitations, peripheral edema, sinus tachycardia, abnormal dreams, agitation, anxiety, cerebral edema, coma, confusion

In an Overdose: In these patients, tinnitus cannot be used as a clinical indicator of salicylate overdose.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Aspirin; omeprazole is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or other substituted benzimidazoles [e.g., other...

ASPIRIN/OMEPRAZOLE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Yosprala

Indication Specific Dosing

For the reduction of cardiovascular mortality and prevention of secondary cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events (e.g., myocardial infarction prophylaxis, stroke prophylaxis) in patients at risk for aspirin associated gastric ulcers and also have a history of stroke, TIA, myocardial infarction, angina (including unstable angina), or are post cardiac surgery (CABG, PTCA)

Oral dosage
Adults


81 mg aspirin; 40 mg omeprazole or 325 mg aspirin; 40 mg omeprazole PO daily. This combination product is not intended for use as the initial dose of aspirin during the onset of acute coronary syndrome, acute myocardial infarction or before percutaneous coronary intervention. Aspirin; omeprazole has not been shown to reduce the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding due to aspirin. Generally, 81 mg of aspirin is an effective dose for secondary cardiovascular prevention. The combination product is not interchangeable with the individual components of aspirin and omeprazole.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Aspirin; omeprazole is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or other substituted benzimidazoles [e.g., other proton pump inhibitors (PPIs)].

General Information

In adults, response to gastric symptoms with aspirin; omeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Consider additional gastrointestinal follow-up and diagnostic testing in adults who experience gastric symptoms during treatment with aspirin; omeprazole or have a symptomatic relapse after completing treatment. In older adults, also consider an endoscopy.

aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease


Aspirin; omeprazole is contraindicated in individuals with aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps, severe and potentially fatal acute bronchospasm, and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. When aspirin is used in individuals with pre-existing asthma without known aspirin sensitivity, monitor for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma.


bleeding disorder, ethanol ingestion


Even low doses of aspirin can inhibit platelet function leading to an increase in bleeding time, which can adversely affect individuals with a bleeding disorder. Monitor for signs of increased bleeding in these individuals during aspirin; omeprazole therapy. Ethanol ingestion is a risk factor for bleeding; advise individuals who consume 3 or more alcohol beverages per day about the bleeding risks involved with chronic, heavy alcohol use while receiving aspirin; omeprazole.


influenza, varicella


Aspirin; omeprazole is contraindicated in pediatric populations with certain viral infections [i.e., influenza or varicella (chicken pox)] due to the risk of Reye syndrome with concomitant aspirin use.


hepatic failure


Avoid aspirin; omeprazole in individuals with any degree of hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Acquired bleeding disorder due to liver disease is a risk factor for bleeding with aspirin. Additionally, systemic exposure is increased in individuals with hepatic impairment.


renal disease


Avoid aspirin; omeprazole in individuals with renal failure (GFR less than 10 mL/minute). Aspirin use decreases GFR and renal blood flow, especially in individuals with pre-existing renal disease. The regular use of aspirin is associated with a dose-dependent increased risk of chronic renal failure.


increased risk for osteoporosis


Use the lowest dose and shortest duration of aspirin; omeprazole therapy appropriate for the condition being treated in individuals with increased risk for osteoporosis. Several published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in individuals who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Manage individuals at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures according to established treatment guidelines.


cutaneous lupus erythematosus, systemic lupus erythematosus


Cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have been reported in individuals taking proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including omeprazole. These events have occurred as both new onset and an exacerbation of pre-existing autoimmune disease. Avoid use of PPIs for longer than medically indicated in these individuals.


hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypoparathyroidism


Consider monitoring magnesium and calcium concentrations prior to initiating aspirin; omeprazole therapy and periodically while on treatment in individuals with a pre-existing risk of hypocalcemia (e.g., hypoparathyroidism). Supplement with magnesium and/or calcium, as necessary. Hypomagnesemia has been reported in individuals treated with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) for at least 3 months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Hypomagnesemia may lead to hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia and may exacerbate underlying hypocalcemia in at-risk individuals.


Asian patients


Avoid aspirin; omeprazole use in Asian patients with unknown CYP2C19 genotype or those who are known to be poor metabolizers. Asians exhibit a 4-fold increase in AUC of omeprazole compared to Whites.


geriatric


Aspirin increases bleeding risk; risk factors for bleeding include age 60 years and older. According to the Beers Criteria, aspirin and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are considered potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) for use in geriatric adults. In general, avoid the use of aspirin as primary prevention of cardiovascular (CV) disease in older adults. Several studies suggest a lack of net benefit when used for primary prevention of CV disease in older adults and the risk of gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding increases markedly in older age. Consider the deprescribing of aspirin in older adults currently taking it for primary CV prevention. Aspirin is generally indicated for secondary CV prevention in older adults with established CV disease. Aspirin may cause new or worsening gastric or duodenal ulcers, and there is an increased risk of GI bleeding and peptic ulcer disease in high-risk groups including those more than 75 years of age, or those taking oral or parenteral corticosteroids, anticoagulants, or antiplatelet medications. The risk of ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation is cumulative with continued use. The Beers panel also recommends avoiding chronic use of aspirin doses more than 325 mg/day in high-risk individuals, including those with a history of gastric or duodenal ulcers, unless other alternatives are not effective and the individual can take a gastroprotective agent. The use of a gastroprotective agent, like a proton-pump inhibitor or misoprostol, reduces but does not eliminate, GI risks. PPIs may increase the risk of C. difficile infection, pneumonia, GI malignancies, and bone loss/fractures. Avoid scheduled use of PPIs for more than 8 weeks except for high-risk adults (e.g., oral corticosteroids or chronic NSAID use), erosive esophagitis, Barrett esophagitis, pathological hypersecretory condition, or a demonstrated need for maintenance treatment (e.g., due to failure of a drug discontinuation trial or inadequate response to H2-receptor blockers).


labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy


Daily low-dose aspirin use is considered safe during pregnancy with a low likelihood of serious complications. Guidelines recommend prophylactic low-dose aspirin after 12 weeks of gestation in people at high risk for preeclampsia. However, the use of NSAIDs, including aspirin for other indications and at doses other than those recommended for preeclampsia prophylaxis, is generally not recommended during the second half of pregnancy. Avoid the use of NSAIDs during pregnancy starting at 30 weeks gestation due to the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. When use is necessary between 20 and 30 weeks gestation, limit use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if treatment exceeds 48 hours. Discontinue the NSAID if oligohydramnios develops, and follow up according to clinical practice. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks gestation and later may also cause fetal renal dysfunction, leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some cases, invasive neonatal procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis have been required. Salicylates have also been associated with alterations in maternal and neonatal hemostasis mechanisms, decreased birth weight, and perinatal mortality. Avoid the use of aspirin for indications and at doses other than those recommended for preeclampsia prophylaxis 1 week prior to and during labor and obstetric delivery due to the potential for excessive blood loss at delivery. Prolonged gestation and labor due to prostaglandin inhibition have been reported. Available data from epidemiologic studies evaluating omeprazole use during pregnancy do not demonstrate an increased risk of major congenital malformations or other adverse outcomes. Changes in bone morphology were observed in the offspring of rats dosed through most of pregnancy and lactation at doses 34 times or more the oral human dose of 40 mg. When maternal administration was confined to gestation only, there were no effects on bone physeal morphology in the offspring at any age.
 


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with aspirin. NSAIDs may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.


breast-feeding


Use aspirin;omeprazole with caution during breast-feeding. Both individual components are present in human milk. Daily low-dose (e.g., 75 to 162 mg/day) aspirin therapy for vascular indications may be continued during breast-feeding. Aspirin is not present in human milk after daily low-dose aspirin (75 to 325 mg/day) use and salicylate concentrations are low. Some data suggest the presence of aspirin in human milk at relative infant doses of 2.5% to 10.8% of the patient's weight-adjusted dosage. Long term use of higher doses are not recommended as salicylates are excreted into human milk, with higher doses resulting in disproportionately higher milk levels which could cause adverse effects in the breastfed child. There are published case reports of children exposed to aspirin during breast-feeding developing metabolic acidosis, thrombocytopenia, and hemolysis. If aspirin is used during lactation, monitor the breastfed child for bruising and bleeding. Omeprazole is generally considered compatible with breast-feeding. Limited data suggest that omeprazole is present in human milk in small amounts, with a relative infant dose of about 1%. The amount of omeprazole present in human milk is unlikely to be harmful to the breast-fed child.


adolescents, children, infants


The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes aspirin as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in infants, children, and adolescents with suspicion of a viral illness and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use aspirin; omeprazole with caution and appropriate monitoring.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Use aspirin;omeprazole with caution during breast-feeding. Both individual components are present in human milk. Daily low-dose (e.g., 75 to 162 mg/day) aspirin therapy for vascular indications may be continued during breast-feeding. Aspirin is not present in human milk after daily low-dose aspirin (75 to 325 mg/day) use and salicylate concentrations are low. Some data suggest the presence of aspirin in human milk at relative infant doses of 2.5% to 10.8% of the patient's weight-adjusted dosage. Long term use of higher doses are not recommended as salicylates are excreted into human milk, with higher doses resulting in disproportionately higher milk levels which could cause adverse effects in the breastfed child. There are published case reports of children exposed to aspirin during breast-feeding developing metabolic acidosis, thrombocytopenia, and hemolysis. If aspirin is used during lactation, monitor the breastfed child for bruising and bleeding. Omeprazole is generally considered compatible with breast-feeding. Limited data suggest that omeprazole is present in human milk in small amounts, with a relative infant dose of about 1%. The amount of omeprazole present in human milk is unlikely to be harmful to the breast-fed child.


Interactions

Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and omeprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Consider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsuel solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg/day for 5 days.
Acarbose: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors whenever possible. There were reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death with high-dose aspirin and acetazolamide. Two mechanisms could cause increased acetazolamide concentrations, resulting in CNS depression and metabolic acidosis: first, competition with aspirin for renal tubular secretion and, second, displacement by salicylates from plasma protein binding sites. Additionally, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors alkalinize urine and increase the excretion of normal doses of salicylates; decreased plasma salicylate concentrations may or may not be clinically significant.
Acetohydroxamic Acid: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acidifying Agents: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with adagrasib. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance. (Minor) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH greater than 5.5. Concomitant use of budesonide oral capsules and drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
Alendronate: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class. (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class. (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the CYP450 system, such as alprazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Amikacin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aminoglycosides: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Amoxicillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amoxicillin; Clavulanic Acid: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B: (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Ampicillin: (Major) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid. For enteral ampicillin, whose bioavailability is influenced by gastric pH, the concomitant administration of PPIs can exert a significant effect on ampicillin absorption. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Major) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid. For enteral ampicillin, whose bioavailability is influenced by gastric pH, the concomitant administration of PPIs can exert a significant effect on ampicillin absorption. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Large doses of salicylates (more than 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and antithrombin III should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apalutamide with omeprazole as omeprazole plasma concentrations may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of both CYP3A and CYP2C19. Coadministration with apalutamide has been observed to decrease the overall exposure of omeprazole by 85%.
Apixaban: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Use caution if omeprazole and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in omeprazole-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of omeprazole. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In theory, dosage reductions may be required for drugs that are largely eliminated via CYP2C19 metabolism such as omeprazole during coadministration with armodafinil. A 40% increase in exposure of omeprazole was observed during coadministration with armodafinil. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C: (Minor) Agents that acidify the urine should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urinary pH changes can decrease salicylate excretion. However, if the urine is acidic prior to administration of an acidifying agent, the increase in salicylic acid concentrations should be minimal.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of aspirin and dipyridamole; both medications interfere with platelet aggregation and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding. For patients undergoing a dipyridamole nuclear stress test and receiving combination aspirin; dipyridamole, hold aspirin; dipyridamole for 48 hours prior to the stress test; concomitant use may increase the risk for cardiovascular side effects and impair the sensitivity of the test.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with atazanavir in treatment-experienced patients is contraindicated. PPIs can be used with atazanavir in treatment-naive patients under specific administration restrictions. In treatment-naive patients >= 40 kg, the PPI dose should not exceed the equivalent of omeprazole 20 mg/day, and the PPI must be administered 12 hours before atazanavir and ritonavir; use the dosage regimen of atazanavir 300 mg boosted with ritonavir 100 mg given once daily with food. While data are insufficient to recommend atazanavir dosing in children < 40 kg receiving concomitant PPIs, the same recommendations regarding timing and maximum doses of concomitant PPIs should be followed. Closely monitor patients for antiretroviral therapeutic failure and resistance development during treatment with a PPI. A randomized, open-label, multiple-dose drug interaction study of atazanavir (300 mg) with ritonavir (100 mg) coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg found a reduction in atazanavir AUC and Cmin of 76% and 78%, respectively. Additionally, after multiple doses of omeprazole (40 mg/day) and atazanavir (400 mg/day, 2 hours after omeprazole) without ritonavir, the AUC of atazanavir was decreased by 94%, Cmax by 96%, and Cmin by 95%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with atazanavir in treatment-experienced patients is contraindicated. PPIs can be used with atazanavir in treatment-naive patients under specific administration restrictions. In treatment-naive patients >= 40 kg, the PPI dose should not exceed the equivalent of omeprazole 20 mg/day, and the PPI must be administered 12 hours before atazanavir and ritonavir; use the dosage regimen of atazanavir 300 mg boosted with ritonavir 100 mg given once daily with food. While data are insufficient to recommend atazanavir dosing in children < 40 kg receiving concomitant PPIs, the same recommendations regarding timing and maximum doses of concomitant PPIs should be followed. Closely monitor patients for antiretroviral therapeutic failure and resistance development during treatment with a PPI. A randomized, open-label, multiple-dose drug interaction study of atazanavir (300 mg) with ritonavir (100 mg) coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg found a reduction in atazanavir AUC and Cmin of 76% and 78%, respectively. Additionally, after multiple doses of omeprazole (40 mg/day) and atazanavir (400 mg/day, 2 hours after omeprazole) without ritonavir, the AUC of atazanavir was decreased by 94%, Cmax by 96%, and Cmin by 95%. (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Avanafil: (Minor) Avanafil is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. A single avanafil (200 mg) dose increased the AUC and Cmax of a single omeprazole (40 mg) dose, a CYP2C19 substrate, given once daily for 8 days by 5.9% and 8.6%, respectively.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Bacitracin: (Minor) Additive nephrotoxicity may occur with concurrent use of systemic bacitracin and other nephrotoxic agents, including salicylates. Topical administration of any preparation containing bacitracin, especially when applied to large surface areas, also should not be given with other drugs that have a nephrotoxic potential.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Belumosudil: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Monitor for anemia and hypoxia if concomitant use of omeprazole with belzutifan is necessary due to increased plasma exposure of belzutifan which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of belzutifan as recommended if anemia or hypoxia occur. Belzutifan is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bisacodyl: (Minor) The concomitant use of bisacodyl oral tablets with drugs that raise gastric pH like proton pump inhibitors can cause the enteric coating of the bisacodyl tablets to dissolve prematurely, leading to possible gastric irritation or dyspepsia. When taking bisacodyl tablets, it is advisable to avoid PPIs within 1 hour before or after the bisacodyl dosage.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Bosutinib: (Major) Bosutinib displays pH-dependent aqueous solubility; therefore, concomitant use of bosutinib and proton-pump inhibitors, such as omeprazole, may result in decreased plasma exposure of bosutinib. Consider using a short-acting antacid or H2 blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed; separate the administration of bosutinib and antacids or H2-blockers by more than 2 hours.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects and reduced efficacy of both medications if concomitant use of bromocriptine and a salicylate is necessary. Both medications are highly protein-bound and concomitant use may increase the unbound fraction of drug in circulation increasing the risk for adverse effects or enhancing drug elimination and reducing overall drug exposure.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance. (Minor) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH greater than 5.5. Concomitant use of budesonide oral capsules and drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance. (Minor) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH greater than 5.5. Concomitant use of budesonide oral capsules and drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance. (Minor) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH greater than 5.5. Concomitant use of budesonide oral capsules and drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and loop diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
busPIRone: (Minor) In vitro studies showed that therapeutic levels of aspirin, ASA increased the plasma concentrations of free buspirone by 23% through plasma protein binding displacement. In vivo interaction studies with these drugs have not been performed.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of proton pump inhibitors and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Proton pump inhibitors inhibit secretion of gastric acid by proton pumps thereby increasing the gastric pH; for optimal absorption, rilpivirine requires an acidic environment. Coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor and rilpivirine may result in decreased rilpivirine absorption/serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with cannabidiol. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and cannabidiol is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and aspirin when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
Capreomycin: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Captopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole and carbamazepine as omeprazole exposure may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Carisoprodol: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Cefixime: (Minor) In vitro, salicylates have displaced cefixime from its protein-binding sites, resulting in a 50% increase in free cefixime levels. The clinical significance of this effect is unclear at this time.
cefoTEtan: (Minor) Cefotetan has been associated with hypoprothrombinemia and may cause additive effects when given concurrently with salicylates.
Cefpodoxime: (Moderate) Cefpodoxime proxetil requires a low gastric pH for dissolution; therefore, concurrent administration with medications that increase gastric pH, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may decrease the bioavailability of cefpodoxime. When cefpodoxime was administered with high doses of antacids and H2-blockers, peak plasma concentrations were reduced by 24% and 42% and the extent of absorption was reduced by 27% and 32%, respectively. The rate of absorption is not affected.
Cefuroxime: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and cefuroxime. Drugs that reduce gastric acidity, such as PPIs, can interfere with the oral absorption of cefuroxime axetil and may result in reduced antibiotic efficacy.
Celecoxib: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as chlordiazepoxide. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as chlordiazepoxide. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as chlordiazepoxide. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant administration of cidofovir and NSAIDs, such as aspirin, is contraindicated due to the potential for increased nephrotoxicity. Aspirin should be discontinued 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Cilostazol: (Major) When significant CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, are administered concomitantly with cilostazol, the cilostazol dosage should be reduced by 50%. Cilostazol is metabolized by the CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP2C19. When given concurrently with omeprazole, cilostazol AUC is increased by 26% and the Cmax is increased by 18%; the AUC of the active metabolite 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol is increased by 69% and the Cmax is increased by 29%. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Ciprofloxacin: (Minor) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and omeprazole may decrease the AUC and Cmax of ciprofloxacin, but the clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. Codministration of a single tablet dose of 500 mg ciprofloxacin and once-daily administration of 20 mg omeprazole pretreatment for 4 days resulted in a 16% reduction of mean Cmax and mean AUC of ciprofloxacin. A single 1000 mg oral dose of Cipro XR administered with omeprazole (40 mg once daily for 3 days) to 18 healthy volunteers resulted in a decrease in the ciprofloxacin mean AUC by 20% and Cmax by 23%. However, coadministration of a single 1000 mg oral dose of Proquin XR given 2 hours after the third dose of omeprazole (40 mg once daily for 3 days) to 27 healthy volunteers resulted in no changes in the ciprofloxacin AUC and Cmax. If ciprofloxacin is administered with omeprazole with magnesium, chelation of the ciprofloxacin would be expected; in general, it is recommended that ciprofloxacin be administered 2 hours before or 6 hours after any divalent cations like magnesium to help limit an interaction.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Limit the dose of citalopram to 20 mg/day if coadministered with omeprazole. Concurrent use may increase citalopram exposure increasing the risk of QT prolongation. Citalopram is a sensitive CYP2C19 substrate; omeprazole is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) A dosage reduction of clobazam may be necessary during co-administration of omeprazole. Metabolism of N-desmethylclobazam, the active metabolite of clobazam, occurs primarily through CYP2C19 and omeprazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. Extrapolation from pharmacogenomic data indicates that concurrent use of clobazam with moderate or potent inhibitors of CYP2C19 may result in up to a 5-fold increase in exposure to N-desmethylclobazam. Adverse effects, such as sedation, lethargy, ataxia, or insomnia may be potentiated.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Clomipramine may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. This may increase the risk for an upper GI bleed. (Minor) Coadministration may result in increased clomipramine exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor and clomipramine is a CYP2C19 substrate.
Clopidogrel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of clopidogrel and omeprazole as it significantly reduces the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel. If necessary, consider using an alternative proton pump inhibitor, such as rabeprazole, pantoprazole, lansoprazole, or dexlansoprazole. Clopidogrel requires hepatic biotransformation via 2 cytochrome dependent oxidative steps; the CYP2C19 isoenzyme is involved in both steps. Omeprazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In clinical studies, use of omeprazole significantly reduced the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel when administered concomitantly or 12 hours apart. (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if aspirin and clopidogrel are used together as concomitant has an additive effect on platelet function.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as clorazepate. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) The addition of omeprazole to clozapine therapy resulted in a roughly 40% reduction in clozapine plasma concentrations in at least 2 patients. Omeprazole is an inducer of CYP1A2, one of the isoenzymes reponsible for the metabolism of clozapine. According to the manufacturer of clozapine, patients receiving clozapine in combination with a weak to moderate CYP1A2 inducer should be monitored for loss of effectiveness. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. If the inducer is discontinued, monitor for adverse reactions, and consider reducing the clozapine dose if necessary.
Cobicistat: (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Colistin: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking more than 150 mg/day of aspirin is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking more than 150 mg/day of aspirin within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
cycloSPORINE: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like cyclosporine may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Cysteamine: (Major) Monitor white blood cell (WBC) cystine concentration closely when administering delayed-release cysteamine (Procysbi) with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Drugs that increase the gastric pH may cause the premature release of cysteamine from delayed-release capsules, leading to an increase in WBC cystine concentration. Concomitant administration of omeprazole 20 mg did not alter the pharmacokinetics of delayed-release cysteamine when administered with orange juice; however, the effect of omeprazole on the pharmacokinetics of delayed-release cysteamine when administered with water have not been studied.
Dabigatran: (Major) Educate patients about the signs of increased bleeding and the need to report these signs to a healthcare provider immediately if coadministration of dabigatran and aspirin or another salicylate is necessary. Dabigatran can cause significant and, sometimes, fatal bleeding. This risk may be increased by concurrent use of chronic salicylate therapy.
Dacomitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Coadministration of omeprazole and darunavir boosted with ritonavir may result in decreased omeprazole concentrations. Monitor patients receiving these drugs concurrently for reduced omeprazole efficacy and, if needed, consider increasing the dose of omeprazole up to a maximum of 40 mg per day.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Coadministration of omeprazole and darunavir boosted with ritonavir may result in decreased omeprazole concentrations. Monitor patients receiving these drugs concurrently for reduced omeprazole efficacy and, if needed, consider increasing the dose of omeprazole up to a maximum of 40 mg per day. (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of omeprazole and darunavir boosted with ritonavir may result in decreased omeprazole concentrations. Monitor patients receiving these drugs concurrently for reduced omeprazole efficacy and, if needed, consider increasing the dose of omeprazole up to a maximum of 40 mg per day. (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with dasatinib film-coated oral tablets, such as Sprycel. Consider using an alternative dasatinib dosage form, such as Phyrago, or antacids. Separate the administration of all dasatinib oral tablet dosage forms and antacids by at least 2 hours. PPIs alter gastric pH and interfere with the absorption of some dasatinib dosage forms which may reduce dasatinib efficacy. The use of a PPI with Sprycel reduced dasatinib overall exposure by 43%.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including salicylates.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like aspirin is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue antithrombotic agents prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with omeprazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Dichlorphenamide: (Major) Dichlorphenamide is contraindicated with the concomitant use of high dose aspirin, ASA and should be used cautiously in patients receiving low dose aspirin. Dichlorphenamide may cause an elevation in salicylate concentrations in patients receiving aspirin. Adverse reactions including anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, and coma have been reported with the concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and high dose aspirin.
Diclofenac: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and diclofenac is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Diclofenac is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and diclofenac is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Diclofenac is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Dicloxacillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Diflunisal: (Major) The concurrent use of diflunisal and salicylates is not recommended due to the increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity with little or no increase in anti-inflammatory efficacy.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Omeprazole or other proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) can affect digoxin absorption due to their long-lasting effect on gastric acid secretion. Additionally, PPIs may slightly increase digoxin bioavailability. Omeprazole increases the AUC of digoxin by about 10%. Patients with digoxin serum levels at the upper end of the therapeutic range may need to be monitored for potential increases in serum digoxin levels when a PPI is coadministered with digoxin. Finally, PPIs have been associated with hypomagnesemia. Because, low serum magnesium may lead to irregular heartbeat and increase the likelihood of serious cardiac arrhythmias, clinicians should monitor serum magnesium concentrations periodically in patients taking a PPI and digoxin concomitantly. Patients who develop hypomagnesemia may require PPI discontinuation in addition to magnesium replacement.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of aspirin and dipyridamole; both medications interfere with platelet aggregation and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding. For patients undergoing a dipyridamole nuclear stress test and receiving combination aspirin; dipyridamole, hold aspirin; dipyridamole for 48 hours prior to the stress test; concomitant use may increase the risk for cardiovascular side effects and impair the sensitivity of the test.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dose of disulfiram when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. In a single patient, the combined use of disulfiram and omeprazole caused disorientation, confusion, and nightmares. These reactions occurred on 2 separate challenges when omeprazole was added to disulfiram therapy.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of proton pump inhibitors and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Proton pump inhibitors inhibit secretion of gastric acid by proton pumps thereby increasing the gastric pH; for optimal absorption, rilpivirine requires an acidic environment. Coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor and rilpivirine may result in decreased rilpivirine absorption/serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Cytochrome P450 enzyme inhibitors, such as omeprazole, may inhibit the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol, thereby decreasing the formation of the active metabolite and thus, decreasing efficacy.
Doxycycline: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring, alternative antimicrobial therapy, or an alternative doxycycline formulation for patients with risk factors for doxycycline treatment failure that require a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). PPIs alter gastric pH and have been observed to reduce the overall bioavailability of oral doxycycline formulations containing doxycycline monohydrate by 38%. The clinical relevance of this change in exposure varies by doxycycline indication. Other formulations of doxycycline may be less affected.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Omeprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Edoxaban: (Major) Monitor for bleeding in patients who require chronic treatment with aspirin. Concomitant use of edoxaban with drugs that affect hemostasis, such as aspirin, may increase the risk of bleeding. The coadministration of aspirin (100 mg or 325 mg) and edoxaban increased bleeding time relative to that seen with either drug alone.
Efavirenz: (Minor) Efavirenz inhibits and CYP2C19 and may inhibit the metabolism of omeprazole since it is a substrate for CYP2C19.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Minor) Efavirenz inhibits and CYP2C19 and may inhibit the metabolism of omeprazole since it is a substrate for CYP2C19.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Minor) Efavirenz inhibits and CYP2C19 and may inhibit the metabolism of omeprazole since it is a substrate for CYP2C19.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Coadministration of elagolix with omeprazole may increase plasma concentrations of omeprazole. Consider dosage reduction of omeprazole when elagolix is used concomitantly with higher doses of omeprazole, e.g., in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome; however, no dose adjustments are needed for omeprazole at doses of 40 mg once daily or lower. Elagolix is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor and omeprazole is a CYP2C19 sensitive substrate.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Coadministration of elagolix with omeprazole may increase plasma concentrations of omeprazole. Consider dosage reduction of omeprazole when elagolix is used concomitantly with higher doses of omeprazole, e.g., in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome; however, no dose adjustments are needed for omeprazole at doses of 40 mg once daily or lower. Elagolix is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor and omeprazole is a CYP2C19 sensitive substrate.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is metabolized by CYP1A2. The significance of administering inducers of CYP1A2, such as omeprazole, on the systemic exposure of eltrombopag has not been established. Monitor patients for a decrease in the efficacy of eltrombopag if these drugs are coadministered.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of proton pump inhibitors and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Proton pump inhibitors inhibit secretion of gastric acid by proton pumps thereby increasing the gastric pH; for optimal absorption, rilpivirine requires an acidic environment. Coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor and rilpivirine may result in decreased rilpivirine absorption/serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of proton pump inhibitors and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Proton pump inhibitors inhibit secretion of gastric acid by proton pumps thereby increasing the gastric pH; for optimal absorption, rilpivirine requires an acidic environment. Coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor and rilpivirine may result in decreased rilpivirine absorption/serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine. (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole and encorafenib as omeprazole exposure may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of enzalutamide, a strong CYP3A4 inducer and a moderate CYP2C19 inducer, and omeprazole, a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate, as omeprazole plasma exposure may be reduced. In a drug interaction trial in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer, the AUC and Cmax of omeprazole was decreased following a single oral dose of omeprazole 20 mg administered after at least 55 days of oral enzalutamide 160 mg/day.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, epoprostenol may increase the risk of bleeding.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with omeprazole if possible due to decreases in erlotinib plasma concentrations. Erlotinib solubility is pH dependent and solubility decreases as pH increases. Coadministration of erlotinib with medications that increase the pH of the upper gastrointestinal tract may decrease the absorption of erlotinib. Separation of doses may not eliminate the interaction since proton pump inhibitors affect the pH of the upper GI tract for an extended period of time. Increasing the dose of erlotinib is also not likely to compensate for the loss of exposure. Coadministration with omeprazole decreased erlotinib exposure by 46% and the erlotinib Cmax by 61%.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in escitalopram-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with omeprazole is necessary. An empiric escitalopram dosage reduction may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for adverse effects, such as age older than 60 years. Concomitant use has been observed to increase escitalopram concentrations by 51% to 94%, which may increase the risk for adverse effects. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Eslicarbazepine: (Moderate) Eslicarbazepine may inhibit the CYP2C19-mediated and induce the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of omeprazole; both enzymes are involved in the metabolism of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). It is unclear that the theoretical interaction would result in a net increase or decrease in PPI action. Some manufacturers recommend avoiding the coadministration of hepatic cytochrome P-450 enzyme inducers and PPIs. If eslicarbazepine and PPI must be used together, monitor the patient closely for signs and symptoms of GI bleeding or other signs and symptoms of reduced PPI efficacy, or for signs of PPI side effects.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as estazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and loop diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Ethanol: (Major) Concomitant ingestion of alcohol with salicylates, especially aspirin, ASA, increases the risk of developing gastric irritation and GI mucosal bleeding. Alcohol and salicylates are mucosal irritants and aspirin decreases platelet aggregation. Routine ingestion of alcohol and aspirin can cause significant GI bleeding, which may or may not be overt. Even occasional concomitant use of salicylates and alcohol should be avoided. Chronic ingestion of alcohol is often associated with hypoprothrombinemia and this condition increases the risk of salicylate-induced bleeding. Patients should be warned regarding the potential for increased risk of GI bleeding if alcohol-containing beverages are taken concurrently with salicylates.
Etodolac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased omeprazole adverse effects as coadministration of omeprazole and fedratinib increased omeprazole exposure by 3-fold in a drug interaction study. Although dose adjustments are not generally needed, patients with Zollinger-Ellison's syndrome who often require higher omeprazole doses may require an adjustment in omeprazole dose. Omeprazole is metabolized primarily by CYP2C19 and secondarily by CYP3A4; fedratinib is an inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4.
Fenoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with aspirin. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) Use of omeprazole may increase flibanserin concentrations, potentially increasing the risk for severe hypotension, syncope, and/or CNS depression. Monitor for flibanserin-induced adverse reactions; consider if a different PPI would be a better choice for the patient. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor, and has been noted to cause clinically important drug interactions with certain CYP2C19 substrates. Flibanserin is a CYP2C19 substrate. Interactions may be especially significant for patients who are also known CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as flurazepam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluvastatin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of omeprazole with fluvastatin can decrease fluvastatin clearance by 18 to 23%, and increase AUC by 24 to 33%.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Omeprazole is a primary substrate of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Reduced metabolism and resulting elevated plasma concentrations of omeprazole may occur if combined with fluvoxamine. Fluvoxamine is a strong inhibitor of CYP2C19 and a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant administration of omeprazole and a combined inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 resulted in more than doubling of the omeprazole exposure. No specific dose adjustments are recommended, unless the patient is receiving high doses of omeprazole, as for Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome; in such patients, omeprazole dose reduction might be necessary. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with fondaparinux. Data on the concomitant use of fondaparinux with aspirin are lacking; however, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Foscarnet: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as foscarnet, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole and fosphenytoin as omeprazole exposure may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase phenytoin concentrations. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor and CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a CYP2C19 substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Fosphenytoin is converted to phenytoin in vivo, so this interaction may also occur with fosphenytoin.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and loop diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Garlic, Allium sativum may produce clinically-significant antiplatelet effects; until more data are available, garlic should be used cautiously in patients receiving drugs with a potential risk for bleeding such as aspirin, ASA.
Gefitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of omeprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Gentamicin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) There may be an increased risk of bleeding in patients on aspirin therapy who take ginger as a supplement (i.e., usual dietary intake is not expected to pose a risk). Several pungent constituents of ginger, Zingiber officinale are reported to inhibit arachidonic acid induced platelet activation in human whole blood. Ginger-associated platelet inhibition may be related to a decrease in COX-1/Thromboxane synthase enzymatic activity. The increased risk of bleeding is theoretical; clinical data of an interaction are not available.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and aspirin as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea should be used cautiously in patients taking aspirin; there may be an increased risk of bleeding. Monitoring clinical and/or laboratory parameters is warranted. Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals.
Griseofulvin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of griseofulvin with salicylates may result in decreased salicylate serum concentrations. Caution and close monitoring for changes in the effectiveness of the salicylate are recommended.
Heparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin). Despite the potential drug-drug interaction between aspirin and heparin, heparin is frequently administered in combination with low-dose aspirin therapy to patients who have had an acute myocardial infarction and in other disease states. In addition, large doses of salicylates (at least 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Ibandronate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of intravenous or oral ibandronate use, respectively, and aspirin. Acute renal failure has been observed with intravenous ibandronate and concomitant use of other nephrotoxic agents may increase this risk. Additionally, the oral formulations of both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with platelet function such as aspirin; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with asprin is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia. (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ibrutinib and antiplatelet agents such as aspirin may increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients for signs of bleeding. Severe bleeding events have occurred with ibrutinib therapy including intracranial hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematuria, and post procedural hemorrhage; some events were fatal. The mechanism for bleeding with ibrutinib therapy is not well understood. Also, aspirin may mask signs of infection such as fever and in patients following treatment with antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with omeprazole, a CYP3A substrate, as omeprazole toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Indomethacin: (Major) The concurrent use of salicylates and indomethacin is not recommended. Combined use does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than indomethacin monotherapy. Also, a significantly greater incidence of gastrointestinal adverse effects with concurrent use has been observed. Because NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, and prolong bleeding time, additive effects may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin), anticoagulants, or thrombolytic agents.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and salicylates due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity as well as the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of salicylates in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with aspirin. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Iron Sucrose, Sucroferric Oxyhydroxide: (Moderate) Administer aspirin at least 1 hour before oral iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide. Oral iron salts may reduce the bioavailability of aspirin, leading to decreased absorption.
Iron: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with omeprazole may result in increased serum concentrations of omeprazole. Omeprazole is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) When administering proton pump inhibitors with the 100 mg itraconazole capsule and 200 mg itraconazole tablet formulations, systemic exposure to itraconazole is decreased. Conversely, exposure to itraconazole is increased when proton pump inhibitors are administered with the 65 mg itraconazole capsule. Administer proton pump inhibitors at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after the 100 mg capsule or 200 mg tablet. Monitor for increased itraconazole-related adverse effects if proton pump inhibitors are administered with itraconazole 65 mg capsules.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Ketoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Ketorolac: (Contraindicated) Ketorolac is contraindicated in patients currently receiving salicylates due to increased risk of serious NSAID-related adverse events, including gastrointestinal bleeding, ulceration, and perforation.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Major) Solubility of ledipasvir decreases as gastric pH increases; thus, coadministration of ledipasvir; sofosbuvir with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may result in lower ledipasvir plasma concentrations. Ledipasvir can be administered with PPIs if given simultaneously under fasting conditions. The PPI dose should not exceed a dose that is comparable to omeprazole 20 mg/day.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced omeprazole efficacy and adjust the dose of omeprazole if needed during concurrent use of letermovir. Coadministration may result in a clinically relevant decrease in the plasma concentration of omeprazole. Omeprazole is a sensitive substrate of CYP2C19. Letermovir is a CYP2C19 inducer.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with lonafarnib. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and loop diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Increased exposure to omeprazole may occur during concurrent administration of ritonavir. Although dosage adjustment of omeprazole is not normally required, dosage reduction may be considered in patients receiving higher omeprazole doses (e.g., those with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome). Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of a dual CYP2C19/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the omeprazole AUC by an average of 4-times.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Low Molecular Weight Heparins: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of omeprazole by substantially decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, an omeprazole dosage adjustment may be necessary to obtain the desired therapeutic effect. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong inducer of CYP3A; in vitro data suggests is also has the potential to induce CYP2C19.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of omeprazole by substantially decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, an omeprazole dosage adjustment may be necessary to obtain the desired therapeutic effect. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong inducer of CYP3A; in vitro data suggests is also has the potential to induce CYP2C19.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Mafenide: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Mannitol: (Major) In general, avoid use of mannitol and salicylates. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs, such as the salicylates, increases the risk of renal failure after administration of mannitol. However, mannitol promotes the urinary excretion of salicylates, and may be used as an adjunct in salicylate intoxication.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting omeprazole therapy. Avoid initiation of omeprazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable omeprazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use of mavacamten 10 mg with omeprazole 20 mg once daily increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48% with no effect on peak exposure in healthy CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Increased adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects are possible if mefenamic acid is used with salicylates. In addition, concomitant administration of salicylates and mefenamic acid may result in an increase in unbound plasma concentrations of either drug, which could result in greater adverse effects. In general, concomitant use of aspirin and mefenamic acid is not recommended.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may increase plasma concentrations of mefloquine. Patients on chronic mefloquine therapy might be at increased risk of adverse reactions, especially patients with a neurological or psychiatric history.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Meloxicam: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
methazolAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, like methazolamide, whenever possible. The combination yielded reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death. The mechanism appears to be accumulation of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, resulting in increased CNS depression and metabolic acidosis. The acidosis may allow greater CNS penetration of the salicylate.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Methotrexate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methotrexate and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) due to the risk of severe methotrexate-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for adverse reactions; consider temporary withdrawal of the PPI in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Concomitant use of methotrexate, primarily at high dose, and PPIs may increase and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. (Major) Do not administer salicylates before or concomitantly with high doses of methotrexate, such as used in the treatment of osteosarcoma. Concomitant administration of some NSAIDs with high dose methotrexate therapy has been reported to elevate and prolong serum methotrexate concentrations, resulting in deaths from severe hematologic and gastrointestinal toxicity. Use caution when salicylates are administered concomitantly with lower doses of methotrexate. Salicylates have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model and may enhance its toxicity. Methotrexate is partially bound to serum albumin, and toxicity may be increased because of displacement by salicylates.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Metoclopramide can increase the rate or extent of absorption of aspirin because of accelerated gastric emptying, which increases the contact time with the small bowel where this drug is absorbed.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as midazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and omeprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of omeprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of omeprazole.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with mycophenolate mofetil (Cellcept) appears to reduce MPA exposure AUC-12h (25.8 +/- 6.4 mg/L x h with omeprazole vs. 33.3 +/- 11.5 mg//L x h without omeprazole); however, the interaction does not appear to exist with mycophenolate sodium delayed-release tablets (Myfortic). Reduced systemic exposure of MPA after mycophenolate mofetil in the presence of a PPI appears to be due to impaired absorption of mycophenolate mofetil which may occur because of incomplete dissolution of mycophenolate mofetil in the stomach at elevated pH. The clinical significance of reduced MPA exposure is unknown; however patients should be evaluated periodically if mycophenolate mofetil is administered with a PPI. Of note, MPA concentrations appear to be reduced in the initial hours after mycophenolate mofetil receipt but increase later in the dosing interval because of enterohepatic recirculation. A second peak in the concentration-time profile of MPA is observed 612 hours after dosing due to enterohepatic recirculation. For example, the 12-hour plasma concentrations of MPA were similar among patients who received mycophenolate mofetil with or without omeprazole. The biphasic plasma concentration-time course of MPA due to extensive enterohepatic circulation hampers therapeutic drug monitoring of MPA. Drug exposure as measured by AUC-12h is the best estimator for the clinical effectiveness of mycophenolate, but measurement of full-dose interval MPA AUC-12h requires collection of multiple samples over a 12-hour period; MPA predose concentrations correlate poorly with MPA AUC-12h. The interaction does not appear to exist with Mycophenolate sodium (Myfortic). (Moderate) Mycophenolic acid is more than 98% bound to albumin. Concurrent use of mycophenolate with salicylates can decrease the protein binding of mycophenolic acid resulting in an increase in the free fraction of MPA. Patients should be observed for increased clinical effects from mycophenolate as well as additive adverse effects.
Nabumetone: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Use of proton pump inhibitors with nelfinavir is not recommended. Coadministration may result in decreased nelfinavir exposure, subtherapeutic antiretroviral activity, and possibility resistant HIV mutations. In one study, concurrent use of nelfinavir with omeprazole resulted in decreased nelfinavir AUC, Cmax, and Cmin by 36%, 37%, and 39%, respectively.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of neratinib with proton pump inhibitors due to decreased absorption and systemic exposure of neratinib; the solubility of neratinib decreases with increasing pH of the GI tract. Concomitant use with lansoprazole decreased neratinib exposure by 65%.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib capsules or tablets with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). If therapy that alters gastric pH is required, consider the use of nilotinib oral disintegrating tablets or an H2-blocker or antacid. Separate the administration of nilotinib capsules or tablets and an H2-blocker or antacid: give H2-blockers 10 hours before or 2 hours after nilotinib capsules or tablets, separate antacids from nilotinib capsules or tablets by 2 hours. Nilotinib capsules and tablets display pH-dependent solubility and therapy that raises gastric pH may interfere with nilotinib absorption and reduce nilotinib exposure and efficacy. A PPI has been observed to reduce the absorption of nilotinib capsules and tablets by 34%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Increased exposure to omeprazole may occur during concurrent administration of ritonavir. Although dosage adjustment of omeprazole is not normally required, dosage reduction may be considered in patients receiving higher omeprazole doses (e.g., those with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome). Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of a dual CYP2C19/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the omeprazole AUC by an average of 4-times.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and proton pump inhibitors. Concurrent use may impair nirogacestat absorption which may decrease nirogacestat exposure and reduce its efficacy. Antacids may be used with nirogacestat but administration should be separated by at least 2 hours.
Nitazoxanide: (Moderate) The active metabolite of nitazoxanide, tizoxanide, is highly bound to plasma proteins. Caution should be exercised when administering nitazoxanide concurrently with other highly plasma protein-bound drugs with narrow therapeutic indices because competition for binding sites may occur.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) When coadministered with aspirin, ASA (doses between 500 mg and 1000 mg), the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) of a single nitroglycerin dose is increased by 67% and 73%, respectively. Additionally, limited data suggest that patients receiving aspirin, ASA in high doses can exhibit an exaggerated response to sublingual nitroglycerin. Although hypotension and tachycardia were more significant during concomitant therapy, no special precautions appear necessary. The pharmacologic effects of 0.4% nitroglycerin rectal ointment may also be enhanced when administered concomitantly with aspirin, ASA; therefore, close clinical monitoring is advised.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Octreotide: (Moderate) Coadministration of oral octreotide with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may require increased doses of octreotide. Coadministration of oral octreotide with drugs that alter the pH of the upper GI tract, including PPIs, may alter the absorption of octreotide and lead to a reduction in bioavailability. This interaction has been documented with esomeprazole and can occur with the other PPIs.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Omacetaxine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of omacetaxine and aspirin, ASA when the platelet count is less than 50,000 cells/microliter due to an increased risk of bleeding. Also, aspirin may mask signs of infection such as fever and pain in patients following treatment with antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives. Aspirin, ASA should be used with caution in patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy. Special consideration should be given to myelosuppressed patients prior to receiving aspirin.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Administration of oritavancin, a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19, with omeprazole resulted in a 15% increase in the ratio of omeprazole to 5-OH-omeprazole concentrations in the plasma. Monitor patients for omeprazole toxicities, such as headache or gastrointestinal distress, if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Oxacillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Oxaprozin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Avoid the use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) in patients already on paltusotine 60 mg. For those on other paltusotine doses, monitor for a decrease in paltusotine efficacy during concomitant use of paltusotine and a PPI and increase the paltusotine dosage as appropriate based on response. PPIs alter gastric pH and interfere with paltusotine absorption which may reduce paltusotine exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use reduced the overall exposure of 20 mg and 60 mg of paltusotine by 21% and 42%, respectively.
Pamidronate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant pamidronate and aspirin use due to risk for additive nephrotoxicity.
Paromomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Pazopanib displays pH-dependent solubility with decreased solubility at a higher pH. The concomitant use of pazopanib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) that elevate the gastric pH may reduce the bioavailability of pazopanib. In a study of patients with solid tumors, the AUC and Cmax of pazopanib were decreased by approximately 40% when coadministered with esomeprazole. If a drug is needed to raise the gastric pH, consider use of a short-acting antacid; separate antacid and pazopanib dosing by several hours.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Penicillin G Benzathine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin V: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillins: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of platelet inhibitor with pentoxifylline in the treatment of intermittent claudication has not been evaluated and should be approached with caution, due to the potential for synergistic effects.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pexidartinib with omeprazole as concurrent use may decrease pexidartinib exposure which may result in decreased therapeutic response. As an alternative to a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), use locally-acting antacids or H2-receptor antagonists. Coadministration of another PPI decreased pexidartinib exposure by 50%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole and phenytoin as omeprazole exposure may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase phenytoin concentrations. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor and CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a CYP2C19 substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Displacement of phenytoin from binding sites can lead to a decrease in the total phenytoin serum concentration. Close monitoring for excessive phenytoin toxicity or decreased phenytoin efficacy is recommended.
Phosphorated Carbohydrate Solution: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Phosphorus: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Piroxicam: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Pivmecillinam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Plazomicin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Bisacodyl: (Minor) The concomitant use of bisacodyl oral tablets with drugs that raise gastric pH like proton pump inhibitors can cause the enteric coating of the bisacodyl tablets to dissolve prematurely, leading to possible gastric irritation or dyspepsia. When taking bisacodyl tablets, it is advisable to avoid PPIs within 1 hour before or after the bisacodyl dosage.
Posaconazole: (Major) The concurrent use of posaconazole immediate-release oral suspension and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) should be avoided, if possible, due to the potential for decreased posaconazole efficacy. If used in combination, closely monitor for breakthrough fungal infections. PPIs increase gastric pH, resulting in decreased posaconazole absorption and lower posaconazole plasma concentrations. When a single 400 mg dose of posaconazole oral suspension was administered with esomeprazole (40 mg PO daily), the mean reductions in Cmax were 46% and the mean reductions in AUC were 32% for posaconazole. The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole delayed-release tablets and oral suspension are not significantly affected by PPIs. Additionally, posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of many PPIs (dexlansoprazole, esomeprazole, lansoprazole, omeprazole, pantoprazole, and rabeprazole). Coadministration may result in increased plasma concentration of the PPIs.
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Salicylates can indirectly increase insulin secretion, and thus decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates may cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both prasugrel and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Aspirin 150 mg did not alter prasugrel-mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation; however, bleeding time was increased compared to either drug alone. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Psyllium: (Moderate) Psyllium can interfere with the absorption of certain oral drugs if administered concomitantly. For example, psyllium fiber can adsorb salicylates. Per the psyllium manufacturers, administration of other prescribed oral drugs should be separated from the administration of psyllium by at least 2 hours.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as quazepam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with relacorilant. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with rifampin due to the risk of decreased omeprazole plasma concentrations which may decrease efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole and rifapentine as omeprazole exposure may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of proton pump inhibitors and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Proton pump inhibitors inhibit secretion of gastric acid by proton pumps thereby increasing the gastric pH; for optimal absorption, rilpivirine requires an acidic environment. Coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor and rilpivirine may result in decreased rilpivirine absorption/serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with omeprazole may result in decreased riluzole efficacy. In vitro findings suggest decreased riluzole exposure is likely. Riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and omeprazole is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Risedronate: (Moderate) Use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with delayed-release risedronate tablets (Atelvia) is not recommended. Co-administration of drugs that raise stomach pH increases risedronate bioavailability due to faster release of the drug from the enteric coated tablet. This interaction does not apply to risedronate immediate-release tablets. In healthy subjects who received esomeprazole for 6 days, the Cmax and AUC of a single dose of risedronate delayed-release tablets (Atelvia) increased by 60% and 22%, respectively. PPIsare widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use PPIs in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. Study results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class; however, other interactions have not been confirmed and data suggest that fracture protection is not diminished when risedronate is used with PPIs. A post hoc analysis of patients who took risedronate 5 mg daily during placebo-controlled clinical trials determined that risedronate significantly reduced the risk of new vertebral fractures compared to placebo, regardless of concomitant PPI use. PPI users (n = 240) and PPI non-users (n = 2489) experienced fracture risk reductions of 57% (p = 0.009) and 38% (p < 0.001), respectively. (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of risedronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Increased exposure to omeprazole may occur during concurrent administration of ritonavir. Although dosage adjustment of omeprazole is not normally required, dosage reduction may be considered in patients receiving higher omeprazole doses (e.g., those with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome). Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of a dual CYP2C19/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the omeprazole AUC by an average of 4-times.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Salicylates such as aspirin are known to increase bleeding, and bleeding risk may be increased when these drugs are used concomitantly with rivaroxaban. The safety of long-term concomitant use of these drugs has not been studied. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding or blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with salicylates. In a single-dose drug interaction study, no pharmacokinetic interactions were observed after concomitant administration of acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin, ASA) with rivaroxaban.
Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
Saquinavir: (Major) Coadministration with omeprazole results in significantly increased saquinavir concentrations. A similar interaction is expected with all proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). If saquinavir must be administered with PPIs, the patient should be closely monitored for saquinavir-related toxicities, including gastrointestinal symptoms, increased triglycerides, and deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Coadministration with omeprazole results in significantly increased saquinavir concentrations. In a small study, 18 healthy individuals received saquinavir 1000 mg (with ritonavir 100 mg) twice daily for 15 days; on days 11 through 15 omeprazole 40 mg was given once daily, which resulted in an 82% increase in the saquinavir AUC. A similar interaction is expected with all PPIs.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Secretin: (Major) Discontinue proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) before performing a secretin stimulation test for gastrinoma. PPIs may cause a hyperresponse in gastrin secretion and interfere with the test's diagnostic accuracy. The time it takes gastrin concentrations to return to baseline following PPI discontinuation is highly variable.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib with omeprazole due to the risk of decreased selpercatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, selpercatinib must be taken with food. Coadministration under fasting conditions with omeprazole decreased selpercatinib exposure by 69%; however, concomitant use increased selpercatinib exposure by 2% or less when it was administered with a meal.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Sertraline: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sodium Benzoate; Sodium Phenylacetate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Thiosulfate; Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with velpatasvir is not recommended. If it is considered medically necessary to coadminister, velpatasvir should be administered with food and taken 4 hours before omeprazole 20 mg. Other PPIs have not been studied; however, it may be prudent to separate the administration of the other PPIs similarly. Velpatasvir solubility decreases as pH increases; therefore, drugs that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease the concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with velpatasvir is not recommended. If it is considered medically necessary to coadminister, velpatasvir should be administered with food and taken 4 hours before omeprazole 20 mg. Other PPIs have not been studied; however, it may be prudent to separate the administration of the other PPIs similarly. Velpatasvir solubility decreases as pH increases; therefore, drugs that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease the concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sotorasib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease sotorasib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, sotorasib may be administered 4 hours before or 10 hours after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased sotorasib exposure by 57% under fed conditions and 42% under fasted conditions.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for decreased efficacy of spironolactone if coadministration with aspirin is necessary. The spironolactone dose may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those receiving diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of spironolactone and aspirin may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. Aspirin may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. A single aspirin 600 mg dose inhibited the natriuretic effect of spironolactone, which was hypothesized be due to inhibition of tubular secretion of canrenone, causing decreased effectiveness of spironolactone.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for decreased efficacy of spironolactone if coadministration with aspirin is necessary. The spironolactone dose may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those receiving diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of spironolactone and aspirin may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. Aspirin may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. A single aspirin 600 mg dose inhibited the natriuretic effect of spironolactone, which was hypothesized be due to inhibition of tubular secretion of canrenone, causing decreased effectiveness of spironolactone.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of St. John's wort with the proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) as PPI exposure may be decreased, reducing their efficacy. PPIs are CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrates and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer. For example, coadministration of omeprazole with St. John's wort decreased omeprazole plasma concentrations by approximately 40%.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose reduction of omeprazole when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of omeprazole resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions. Omeprazole is a sensitive CYP2C19 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition of CYP2C19 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Streptomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Sucralfate: (Minor) Proton pump inhibitors should be taken at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate. Sucralfate has been shown to delay absorption and reduce the bioavailability of omeprazole by about 16%.
sulfADIAZINE: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
sulfaSALAzine: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonamides: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulindac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of omeprazole and tacrolimus may increase tacrolimus serum concentrations possibly leading to increased risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, infection, QT prolongation), especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood concentrations; reduce tacrolimus dose if needed to maintain therapeutic concentrations. (Moderate) Tacrolimus, in the absence of overt renal impairment, may adversely affect renal function. Care should be taken in using tacrolimus with other nephrotoxic drugs, such as salicylates.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Telavancin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Thrombin Inhibitors: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased bleeding and avoid aspirin doses greater than 100 mg during ticagrelor coadministration. Lower aspirin doses (100 mg or less) are associated with a lower risk of bleeding. Additionally, maintenance doses of aspirin above 300 mg decreased ticagrelor efficacy compared with doses of 100 mg or less in a clinical trial.
Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Caution should be used when administering tipranavir to patients receiving platelet inhibitors. In clinical trials, there have been reports of intracranial bleeding, including fatalities, in HIV infected patients receiving tipranavir as part of combination antiretroviral therapy. In many of these reports, the patients had other medical conditions (CNS lesions, head trauma, recent neurosurgery, coagulopathy, hypertension, or alcoholism/alcohol abuse) or were receiving concomitant medications, including platelet inhibitors, that may have caused or contributed to these events. (Moderate) Some manufacturers recommend avoiding the coadministration of hepatic cytochrome P-450 enzyme inducers and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Tipranavir markedly induces the hepatic cytochrome P-450 enzyme CYP2C19, an enzyme responsible for the metabolism of PPIs. However, since tipranavir is not given unless it is co-prescribed with ritonavir, a known marked enzyme inhibitor, a reduction in PPI metabolism may be unlikely to occur. A reduction in PPI concentrations may increase the risk of gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events such as GI bleeding. If tipranavir and PPIs must be used together, monitor the patient closely for signs and symptoms of GI bleeding or other signs and symptoms of reduced PPI efficacy.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy. (Minor) Patients who receive omeprazole concomitantly with tirofiban may have a higher rate of tirofiban clearance than patients who do not receive omeprazole. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Tobramycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Tocilizumab: (Minor) Concomitant use of tocilizumab and omeprazole may lead to a decrease in the efficacy of omeprazole. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by tocilizumab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates as compared to metabolism prior to treatment. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping tocilizumab. A 12 to 28% decrease in omeprazole exposure occurred 1 week after a single tocilizumab dose. In vitro, tocilizumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Omeprazole is a substrate of both CYP2C19 and CYP3A4.
Tolmetin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and loop diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Minor) In a few reported cases, coadministration of verapamil with aspirin, ASA has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone. The exact mechanism and clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant trazodone and salicylate use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are coadministered with another anticoagulant.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as triazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Trospium: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with tucatinib. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Concurrent salicylate therapy can increase the free-fraction of valproic acid, causing possible valproic acid toxicity. Valproic acid levels should be monitored when these agents are used concomitantly.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Vancomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as vancomycin, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Verapamil: (Minor) In a few reported cases, coadministration of verapamil with aspirin, ASA has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone. The exact mechanism and clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with aspirin is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation like aspirin could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Reduce the omeprazole dose by one-half when initiating voriconazole therapy in patients who are currently receiving omeprazole at doses of 40 mg/day or greater. Levels of omeprazole may increase by up to 2-fold due to CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 inhibition by voriconazole.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Major) Co-administration of aspirin and warfarin is associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Consider alternate therapy for aspirin for analgesic or antipyretic uses. If aspirin and warfarin are coadministered, monitor the patient for signs or symptoms of bleeding. Gastrointestinal irritation and impaired hemostasis secondary to platelet inhibition have been observed with relatively small doses of aspirin. In addition, aspirin may displace warfarin from protein binding sites leading to increased anticoagulation effects. Large doses (more than 3 to 4 g/day) of aspirin can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding; hypoprothrombinemia has also been reported with aspirin doses less than 2 g/day. Lower doses (less than 100 mg) of aspirin are recommended for use in combination with aspirin for the prevention of cardiovascular events in specific cases, including in patients with mechanical mitral or aortic valve or atrial fibrillation after percutaneous coronary intervention or revascularization. The addition of warfarin to aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor in patients after ST-elevation myocardial infarction should be limited to situations where the risk of systemic or venous thromboembolism or stent thrombosis is considered to exceed that of bleeding. Data regarding the benefit vs. risk of combination therapy for other cardiovascular conditions remains unclear. (Moderate) Monitor the INR in patients receiving warfarin with proton pump inhibitors. Increases in INR may lead to abnormal bleeding. Adjust the warfarin dose to maintain the target INR.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Coadministration of aspirin may increase plasma concentrations of zafirlukast. The potential clinical sequelae of increased zafirlukast concentrations are not known.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%.
Zoledronic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant zoledronic acid and aspirin use due to risk for additive nephrotoxicity.


Adverse Reaction
abdominal pain, anorexia, candidiasis, colitis, diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastric polyps, gastritis, GI bleeding, GI obstruction, GI perforation, nausea, peptic ulcer, stomatitis, stool discoloration, vomiting, xerostomia


Gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions have been reported with the use of aspirin; omeprazole. During clinical trials, gastritis was reported in 18% of subjects receiving aspirin; omeprazole compared to 16% of those receiving enteric-coated aspirin. Nausea and diarrhea were reported in 3% of subjects receiving the combination product compared to 2% of those receiving aspirin only. Gastric polyps were reported in 2% of subjects receiving aspirin; omeprazole compared to 1% receiving aspirin. During treatment with omeprazole, gastric fundic gland polyps have been noted rarely. These are benign and appear to be reversible with treatment discontinuation. Proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use is associated with an increased risk of fundic gland polyps that increases with long-term use, especially beyond 1 year. Most PPI users who developed fundic gland polyps were asymptomatic and fundic gland polyps were identified incidentally on endoscopy. Use the shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. During clinical trials, 2 subjects (0.4%) receiving aspirin; omeprazole experienced upper GI bleeding (gastric or duodenal), and lower GI bleeding (hematochezia and large intestinal hemorrhage) was also reported in 2 subjects (0.4%). If active and clinically significant bleeding from any source occurs during aspirin; omeprazole therapy, discontinue treatment. A single subject treated with aspirin; omeprazole experienced GI obstruction of the small bowel. The most common reasons for discontinuation of aspirin; omeprazole in clinical trials were upper abdominal pain, diarrhea, and dyspepsia, all with an incidence of less than 1%. GI events reported with the postmarketing use of aspirin include dyspepsia, GI bleeding, ulceration (peptic ulcer) and GI perforation, nausea, and vomiting. During postmarketing use of omeprazole, anorexia, irritable colon, stool discoloration, esophageal candidiasis, mucosal atrophy of the tongue, stomatitis, abdominal swelling, xerostomia, and microscopic colitis have been reported. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) use may be associated with an increased risk of C. difficile-associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized individuals and should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve.


cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, jaundice, pancreatitis


Elevated hepatic enzymes (serum ALT concentrations) have been reported with long-term moderate to high doses of aspirin. After discontinuation of aspirin, abnormalities resolve rapidly. Hepatitis associated with aspirin use is typically mild and asymptomatic, with mild or absent elevations in bilirubin. Pancreatitis also has been reported with the use of aspirin and omeprazole. Hepatic adverse effects reported with the use of omeprazole include hepatic failure (some fatal), hepatic necrosis (some fatal), hepatic encephalopathy hepatocellular disease, cholestatic disease (cholestasis), mixed hepatitis, jaundice, and elevated hepatic enzymes.


angina, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypotension, palpitations, peripheral edema, sinus tachycardia


Chest pain (unspecified), and non-cardiac, was reported in 2% of patients taking aspirin; omeprazole during clinical trials compared to 1% of those taking aspirin. Other cardiovascular adverse reactions reported with the use of aspirin include dysrhythmias, hypotension, and sinus tachycardia. Adverse reactions reported with the use of omeprazole include angina, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitations, hypertension, and peripheral edema.


abnormal dreams, agitation, anxiety, cerebral edema, coma, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, hallucinations, headache, hostility, insomnia, intracranial bleeding, lethargy, paresthesias, seizures, tremor, vertigo


Adverse reactions affecting the central nervous system reported with the use of aspirin include agitation, cerebral edema, coma, confusion, dizziness, headache, subdural or intracranial bleeding, lethargy, tremor, and seizures. Those reported with the use of omeprazole include depression, agitation, aggression (hostility), hallucinations, confusion, insomnia, nervousness, apathy, drowsiness, anxiety, abnormal dreams, tremors, paresthesias, and vertigo. 


agranulocytosis, anemia, coagulopathy, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, prolonged bleeding time, thrombocytopenia, vitamin B12 deficiency


Hematologic adverse reactions reported with the use of aspirin include prolonged bleeding time, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), coagulopathy, and thrombocytopenia. Hematologic adverse reactions associated with omeprazole include agranulocytosis (some fatal), hemolytic anemia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and leukocytosis. Generally, long-term (e.g., more than 3 years) treatment with acid-suppressing agents can lead to malabsorption of vitamin B12 (cyanocobalamin). In a study of healthy volunteers, it was shown that omeprazole caused a significant reduction in cyanocobalamin (vitamin B12 deficiency) absorption. Although clinical data in omeprazole is lacking, it may be prudent to monitor patients for signs of pernicious anemia. Neurological manifestations of pernicious anemia can occur in the absence of hematologic changes.


alopecia, anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema multiforme, hyperhidrosis, laryngeal edema, lupus-like symptoms, petechiae, photosensitivity, pruritus, purpura, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, xerosis


Hypersensitivity and skin reaction have been reported with the use of both aspirin and omeprazole. Aspirin use is associated with acute anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema and urticaria. Post-marking hypersensitivity and dermatologic reactions with the use of omeprazole include anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, urticaria, toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, lupus-like symptoms (including cutaneous lupus erythematosus and systemic lupus erythematosus), erythema multiforme, photosensitivity, rash (unspecified), skin inflammation, pruritus, petechiae, purpura, alopecia, xerosis, and hyperhidrosis.


arthralgia, bone fractures, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, rhabdomyolysis


Rhabdomyolysis has been reported with the use of aspirin. Musculoskeletal adverse reactions associated with the use of omeprazole include myasthenia, myalgia, muscle cramps, arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, and bone fractures.


dehydration, hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, metabolic acidosis, weight gain


Metabolic adverse reactions associated with aspirin use include hypoglycemia (in children), hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis, and dehydration. Hypoglycemia, hypomagnesemia (with or without hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia), hyponatremia, and weight gain have been reported with the use of omeprazole.


epistaxis, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, throat irritation


Hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, and tachypnea have been reported with the use of aspirin. Other adverse reactions associated with the use of omeprazole include epistaxis and pharyngeal pain (throat irritation).


blurred vision, diplopia, dysgeusia, hearing loss, ocular irritation, optic atrophy, optic neuritis, tinnitus, xerophthalmia


Hearing loss and tinnitus have been reported with the use of aspirin. Patients with high frequency hearing loss may have difficulty perceiving tinnitus. In these patients, tinnitus cannot be used as a clinical indicator of salicylate overdose. Tinnitus and dysgeusia also have been reported with the use of omeprazole. Ocular adverse reactions reported with omeprazole use include blurred vision, diplopia, optic atrophy, anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, optic neuritis, xerophthalmia, ocular irritation.


glycosuria, hematuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, proteinuria, pyuria, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, testicular pain


Renal papillary necrosis, proteinuria, elevated blood urea nitrogen, elevated serum creatinine, renal impairment, and renal failure have been reported with the use of aspirin. Acute tubulo-interstitial nephritis (AIN or TIN) has been observed in patients taking PPIs, including omeprazole and may occur at any point during PPI therapy. Patients may present with varying signs and symptoms from symptomatic hypersensitivity reactions to non-specific symptoms of decreased renal function (e.g., malaise, nausea, anorexia). In reported case series, some patients were diagnosed on biopsy and in the absence of extra-renal manifestations (e.g., fever, rash or arthralgia). AIN has also been reported with the use of aspirin. Discontinue aspirin; omeprazole and evaluate patients with suspected acute AIN. Other renal and genitourinary (GU) adverse reactions reported during the use of omeprazole include hematuria, albuminuria (proteinuria), elevated serum creatinine, microscopic pyuria, urinary tract infection, glycosuria, increased urinary frequency, impotence (erectile dysfunction), and testicular pain.


fatigue, fever, hypothermia, malaise


General adverse reactions reported with the use of aspirin include fever, hypothermia, and thirst. Fever also has been reported with omeprazole along with pain, fatigue and malaise.


gynecomastia


Gynecomastia has been reported with the post-marketing use of omeprazole.


Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)


Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), a multi-organ hypersensitivity reaction, has occurred with NSAIDs. Some of these events have been life-threatening or fatal. DRESS typically presents as fever, rash, and/or lymphadenopathy in conjunction with other organ system involvement including hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Early manifestations such as fever and lymphadenopathy may be present without evidence of a rash. Discontinue the NSAID in patients presenting with such signs and symptoms in whom an alternative etiology cannot be identified.


infertility


NSAIDs may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.


laboratory test interference


Serum chromogranin A (CgA) concentrations increase secondary to omeprazole-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA concentration may cause laboratory test interference and false positive results in diagnostic interventions for neuroendocrine tumors. Temporarily discontinue treatment with aspirin; omeprazole at least 14 days before assessing CgA concentrations and consider repeating the test if initial CgA concentrations are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), use the same commercial laboratory for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary.


Description

Aspirin; omeprazole is a combination of aspirin, an antiplatelet agent, and omeprazole, a proton pump inhibitor, for patients who require aspirin for secondary prevention of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events and who are at risk of developing aspirin-associated gastric ulcers. Although the combination product is approved for use in patients at risk for developing aspirin-associated gastric ulcers, the combination product has not been shown to reduce the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding due to aspirin. Aspirin; omeprazole is not for use as the initial dose of aspirin therapy during onset of acute coronary syndrome, acute myocardial infarction, or before percutaneous coronary intervention. Aspirin; omeprazole was FDA-approved in September 2016.

Mechanism Of Action

Aspirin: Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) is an inhibitor of both prostaglandin synthesis and platelet aggregation. The activity of aspirin is due to its ability to inhibit cyclooxygenase (COX). Aspirin appears to inhibit COX through two pathways and seems to have a different mechanism of action than other salicylates. In comparison, salicylic acid has little or no ability to inhibit COX in vitro despite inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis at the site of inflammation in vivo. The exact mechanism of prostaglandin inhibition by salicylic acid is unclear; however, salicylates produce the majority of classic NSAID effects.
 
Omeprazole: Omeprazole belongs to the class of GI antisecretory agents, the substituted benzimidazoles, which suppress gastric acid secretion by inhibiting the (H+, K+)-ATPase enzyme system of parietal cells. Following activation in an acidic pH, omeprazole binds irreversibly to the (H+, K+)-ATPase pump on the secretory surface of the parietal cell membrane. Subsequently, the secretion of hydrogen ions into the gastric lumen is inhibited. Omeprazole is characterized as a gastric acid pump inhibitor because it blocks the final step of gastric acid production. It inhibits both basal and stimulus-induced acid secretion.

Pharmacokinetics

Aspirin and omeprazole are administered orally.
Aspirin: Acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) is rapidly hydrolyzed to salicylic acid. Salicylic acid is conjugated in the liver to form salicyluric acid, a phenolic glucuronide, an acyl glucuronide, and a number of minor metabolites. Salicylic acid is widely distributed to all tissues in the body, with high concentrations in the liver, kidney, heart, and lungs. Protein binding of salicylic acid to albumin varies with serum salicylate and albumin concentrations. At salicylate levels of <= 100 mcg/ml, salicylic acid is approximately 90% bound to albumin. At higher concentrations (> 400 mcg/mL), approximately 75% is protein bound. The rate of aspirin elimination is constant in relation to plasma concentration. Renal excretion depends on urinary pH. As urinary pH rises above 6.5, the renal clearance of free salicylate increases from 5% to more than 80%. Following therapeutic doses, approximately 10% is excreted in the urine as salicylic acid, 75% as salicyluric acid, and 10% phenolic and 5% acyl glucuronides of salicylic acid. The half-life of salicylic acid after a dose of aspirin 325 mg; omeprazole 40 mg is 2.4 hours.
Omeprazole: Extensively hepatic metabolism occurs, and the metabolites have minimal antisecretory activity. Omeprazole is 95% bound to plasma proteins. Extensive hepatic metabolism occurs, and the metabolites have minimal antisecretory activity. The plasma half-life in healthy patients is approximately 1 hour. The majority of the dose (approximately 77%) is excreted renally; the remainder of the dose is excreted in the feces.
Serum gastrin levels increase during the initial 1 to 2 weeks of omeprazole therapy, and median increases in gastrin are greater than the increases produced by H2-receptor antagonists. Gastrin levels return to baseline within 1 to 2 weeks following discontinuance of therapy.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C19, CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2C9, P-gp
Omeprazole is metabolized by the CYP2C19 isoenzyme (primary) and by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme (secondary). Omeprazole inhibits the CYP2C19 isoenzyme in vitro and in vivo and the CYP2C9 isoenzyme in vitro. Omeprazole does not appear to inhibit CYP3A4 activity (evaluated via erythromycin breath test). In vitro, omeprazole induces the CYP1A2 isoenzyme. Omeprazole is a substrate and inhibitor of the P-glycoprotein (P-pg) transport system.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Administration of aspirin; omeprazole with food significantly reduces the extent and absorption of omeprazole by 67% and 84%, respectively; therefore, aspirin; omeprazole should be administered at least 60 minutes before a meal. Following single dose administration of aspirin; omeprazole, peak concentrations of acetylsalicylic acid were reached at 2.5 hours for the 81 mg; 40 mg tablet and 2 to 4.5 hours for the 325 mg; 40 mg tablets. The Cmax and AUC of acetylsalicylic acid were 2.6 mcg/mL and 3 mcg/hr/mL, respectively, following administration of the 81 mg; 40 mg tablet and 2.5 mcg/mL and 2.9 mcg/hr/mL, respectively, following the 325 mg; 40 mg tablets. No significant accumulation of salicylic acid and acetylsalicylic acid was observed following 7 days of 325 mg; 40 mg tablets compared to the first day of dosing. Following administration of aspirin; omeprazole, the peak plasma concentration of omeprazole was reached at 0.5 hours on both the first day of administration and at steady state. The Cmax and AUC of omeprazole ranged from 617 to 856 ng/mL and 880 to 1384 ng/hr/mL following a single dose of 325 mg; 40 mg tablets. Dosing of 325 mg; 40 mg tablets for 7 days results in approximately 2.3-fold higher AUC and 2-fold higher Cmax of omeprazole at steady state compared to the first day of dosing.

Hepatic Impairment

Although the pharmacokinetics of the combination product aspirin; omeprazole have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment, the bioavailability of omeprazole in patients with chronic hepatic disease is increased by approximately 100%. In addition, the plasma half life of omeprazole is increased to nearly 3 hours in patients with hepatic disease.

Renal Impairment

Although the pharmacokinetics of the combination product aspirin; omeprazole have not been studied in patients with renal impairment, the bioavailability of omeprazole is slightly increased in patients with renal impairment (CrCl 10 to 67 mL/minute). The elimination of omeprazole also decreased in proportion to decrease in creatinine clearance.

Geriatric

The pharmacokinetics of the combination product aspirin; omeprazole have not been studied in patients greater than 65 years of age. However, the bioavailability of omeprazole is increased, plasma clearance is decreased, and plasma half-life is increased in geriatric patients compared to younger patients.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Administer at least 60 minutes before a meal.
Swallow whole with liquid. Do not split, crush, or dissolve the tablet.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

325 mg aspirin; 40 mg omeprazole.

Geriatric

325 mg aspirin; 40 mg omeprazole.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Aspirin 81mg, Omeprazole 40mg Oral tablet, biphasic release

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Avoid aspirin; omeprazole in patients with any degree of hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

CrCl >= 10 mL/min: No dosage adjustment required.
CrCl < 10 mL/min: Avoid use.

© 2026 Elsevier