=== Acetaminophen/diphenhydrAMINE — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 850)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetaminophen and diphenhydramine are used together in an oral preparation either to provide temporary relief of occasional headache or mild aches and pain in patients with insomnia (sleeplessness) or to provide temporary relief of the symptoms of allergic respiratory conditions accompanied by...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1,000 mg acetaminophen and 50 mg diphenhydramine PO per night for insomnia; 3,000 mg/day PO acetaminophen and 100 mg/day PO diphenhydramine for other uses.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, interstitial nephritis, renal failure (unspecified), renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis, asthenia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, fatigue, headache, neuritis, paresthesias, psychomotor impairment, tinnitus, tremor, vertigo, agitation, excitability, insomnia, irritability, restlessness, seizures

In an Overdose: Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing. After acute overdose, elevated hepatic enzymes occur within 12 to 36 hours and maximal liver damage and hepatic impairment peak 3 to 5 days after ingestion.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Diphenhydramine is an ethanolamine class first-generation antihistamine and is contraindicated in people hypersensitive to other antihistamines of similar chemical structure.

ACETAMINOPHEN/DIPHENHYDRAMINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Aceta-Gesic, Bayer PM, Cystex PM, Excedrin PM, Excedrin PM Express, Goody's PM, Mapap PM, Midol PM, Panadol, Percogesic, Percogesic Extra Strength, Theraflu Multi-Symptom Severe Cold, Tylenol Cold, Tylenol Cold Nighttime, Tylenol Day/Night Pack, Tylenol PM Extra Strength, Tylenol PM Extra Strength Rapid Release , Tylenol Severe Allergy, Tylenol Sore Throat Nighttime, Unisom PM

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of occasional insomnia when associated with minor aches and pains

Oral dosage (products with 325 mg acetaminophen and 50 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride per dosage unit)
Adults


325 mg acetaminophen/50 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride PO once daily at bedtime. Max: 325 mg/day acetaminophen/50 mg/day diphenhydramine hydrochloride.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


325 mg acetaminophen/50 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride PO once daily at bedtime. Max: 325 mg/day acetaminophen/50 mg/day diphenhydramine hydrochloride.


Oral dosage (products with 500 mg acetaminophen and 25 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride per dosage unit)
Adults


1,000 mg acetaminophen/50 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride PO once daily at bedtime. Max: 1,000 mg/day acetaminophen/50 mg/day diphenhydramine hydrochloride.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


1,000 mg acetaminophen/50 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride PO once daily at bedtime. Max: 1,000 mg/day acetaminophen/50 mg/day diphenhydramine hydrochloride.


Oral dosage (solutions with 1,000 mg acetaminophen and 50 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride per 30 mL)
Adults


1,000 mg acetaminophen/50 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride PO once daily at bedtime. Max: 1,000 mg/day acetaminophen/50 mg/day diphenhydramine.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


1,000 mg acetaminophen/50 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride PO once daily at bedtime. Max: 1,000 mg/day acetaminophen/50 mg/day diphenhydramine.


Oral dosage (products with 500 mg acetaminophen and 38 mg diphenhydramine citrate per dosage unit)
Adults


1,000 mg acetaminophen/76 mg diphenhydramine citrate PO once daily at bedtime. Max: 1,000 mg/day acetaminophen/76 mg/day diphenhydramine citrate.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


1,000 mg acetaminophen/76 mg diphenhydramine citrate PO once daily at bedtime. Max: 1,000 mg/day acetaminophen/76 mg/day diphenhydramine citrate.


For the treatment of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis, including rhinorrhea, sneezing, and pruritus of the nose or throat

Oral dosage (tablets containing acetaminophen 500 mg and diphenhydramine 12.5 mg)
Adults


2 tablets PO every 6 hours as needed. Do not exceed 6 tablets/day.


Children and Adolescents 12 years and older


2 tablets PO every 6 hours as needed. Do not exceed 6 tablets/day.


Oral dosage (tablets containing acetaminophen 325 mg and diphenhydramine 12.5 mg)
Adults


2 tablets PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Do not exceed 8 tablets/day.


Children and Adolescents 12 years and older


2 tablets PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Do not exceed 8 tablets/day.


For the treatment of mild pain, including minor aches and pains associated with headache, musculoskeletal pain (including backache), arthralgia, dental pain, dysmenorrhea, and/or the common cold

Oral dosage (tablets containing acetaminophen 500 mg and diphenhydramine 12.5 mg)
Adults


2 tablets PO every 6 hours as needed. Do not exceed 6 tablets/day.


Children and Adolescents 12 years and older


2 tablets PO every 6 hours as needed. Do not exceed 6 tablets/day.


Oral dosage (tablets containing acetaminophen 325 mg and diphenhydramine 12.5 mg)
Adults


2 tablets PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Do not exceed 8 tablets/day.


Children and Adolescents 12 years and older


2 tablets PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Do not exceed 8 tablets/day.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Diphenhydramine is an ethanolamine class first-generation antihistamine and is contraindicated in people hypersensitive to other antihistamines of similar chemical structure.

alcohol use disorder, ethanol ingestion, hepatic disease, hypovolemia, malnutrition


Use acetaminophen; diphenhydramine with caution in individuals with hepatic disease. A reduced total daily dose of acetaminophen may be warranted in these individuals. Acetaminophen has been associated with hepatotoxicity. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses more than 4 g/day and often involve more than 1 acetaminophen-containing product. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and with chronic ethanol ingestion while taking acetaminophen, which may be defined as 3 or more alcoholic beverages per day.  Use acetaminophen with caution in individuals with alcohol use disorder, chronic malnutrition, severe hypovolemia (i.e., due to dehydration or blood loss), or severe renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less). Take care when prescribing, preparing, and administering acetaminophen to avoid risk of medication errors which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure that the total daily dose of acetaminophen from all sources does not exceed maximum daily limits.


chronic obstructive pulmonary disease


Use sedating antihistamines such as diphenhydramine with caution in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including emphysema or chronic bronchitis. The anticholinergic activity of first-generation H1-antagonists may result in thickened bronchial secretions in the respiratory tract, thereby aggravating COPD.


glaucoma


Acetaminophen; diphenhydramine should be used with caution in people with glaucoma, as an increase in intraocular pressure may occur from the anticholinergic actions of the medication. Older adults are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects of diphenhydramine, including possible precipitation of undiagnosed glaucoma.  


prostatic hypertrophy


Due to the anticholinergic effects which may aggravate urinary retention, first-generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine, should be used with caution in people with trouble urinating due to prostatic hypertrophy.


renal failure, renal impairment


People with significant renal impairment should generally consult their care team prior to using acetaminophen; diphenhydramine. Some resources recommend cautious use of acetaminophen in severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) and less frequent acetaminophen dosing in patients with renal failure (CrCl less than 10 mL/minute). Acetaminophen is generally the fever and pain reliever of choice in patients with kidney dysfunction. Guidelines recommend using the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration needed. Habitual use of acetaminophen should be discouraged.


children, infants, neonates


Due to the risk for serious adverse reactions, the FDA recommends against administration of over the counter (OTC) cough and cold products to neonates, infants, and children younger than 2 years of age. When administering OTC medications to older pediatric patients, advise caregivers to read product labels carefully, use caution when administering multiple products to avoid duplication of ingredients, and use only measuring devices specifically designed for use with medications. Thoroughly assess each patient's use of similar products, both prescription and nonprescription, to avoid duplication of therapy and the potential for inadvertent overdose.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Diphenhydramine can cause drowsiness. Advise individuals receiving acetaminophen; diphenhydramine to avoid driving or operating machinery and activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of the drug are known. Additive drowsiness may be seen during coadministration with alcohol and other CNS depressants.


geriatric


The Beers Criteria identifies first-generation antihistamines as potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) for geriatric adults, recommending their avoidance due to their high anticholinergic properties, decreased clearance in older age, the development of tolerance when used as sleep aids, and an increased risk of anticholinergic effects and toxicity compared to younger individuals. These medications should particularly be avoided in patients with dementia or cognitive impairment (due to adverse CNS effects), those at high risk for delirium (which can worsen or trigger new-onset delirium), and men with lower urinary tract symptoms or benign prostatic hyperplasia (due to risks of urinary retention or hesitancy).


pregnancy


Pregnant patients should see their health care professional for diagnosis and treatment recommendations before taking acetaminophen; diphenhydramine or other cough, cold or allergy medications. While diphenhydramine is typically an antihistamine of choice in managing acute or severe allergic reactions during pregnancy, non-pharmacologic methods (e.g., fluids and rest) are recommended to be tried first for symptomatic relief of colds or allergies during pregnancy.  Loratadine and oral cetirizine are acceptable alternatives to first-generation antihistamines like diphenhydramine, based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy. Both the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM) recommend acetaminophen as the first-line pharmacological therapy for pain and/or fever during pregnancy; use at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time. Counsel pregnant patients to limit long-term or high-dose use to indications discussed with a health care provider. Published epidemiological studies of oral acetaminophen have not reported a clear association with acetaminophen use during pregnancy and birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Large observational studies of newborns exposed to oral acetaminophen during the first trimester have not shown an increased risk for congenital malformations or major birth defects; however, these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of risk because of methodological limitations.


breast-feeding


Use acetaminophen; diphenhydramine combination products with caution during breast-feeding. Small, occasional doses of diphenhydramine would not be expected to cause adverse effects in breastfed infants. Larger doses or more prolonged use may cause effects in the infant or decrease the milk supply. Side effects of sedating first-generation antihistamines in breastfed infants such as irritability, disturbed sleeping patterns, drowsiness, hyperexcitability, and excessive crying have been reported in a number of cases. Antihistamines can lower basal prolactin secretion and may interfere with the establishment of lactation. Consider treatment alternatives when possible. Guidelines recommend loratadine or cetirizine at the lowest dose as preferred antihistamines in breast-feeding individuals because they are safer with only low levels found in breast milk. Acetaminophen is compatible with breast-feeding and is considered a first-line choice for analgesia, headache, or fever in the lactating individual, including for those patients who are immediately postpartum and planning to breastfeed. Amounts present in milk are much less than the doses usually given to infants, and adverse effects in breastfed infants appear to be rare. Limited published studies report acetaminophen is present in human milk, with similar concentrations in the milk and plasma. Average and maximum neonatal doses of 1% and 2%, respectively, of the weight-adjusted maternal dose are reported after a single oral dose of 1,000 mg. There is one well-documented report of rash occurring in a breastfed infant that resolved with drug discontinuation and recurred when acetaminophen was resumed.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Pregnant patients should see their health care professional for diagnosis and treatment recommendations before taking acetaminophen; diphenhydramine or other cough, cold or allergy medications. While diphenhydramine is typically an antihistamine of choice in managing acute or severe allergic reactions during pregnancy, non-pharmacologic methods (e.g., fluids and rest) are recommended to be tried first for symptomatic relief of colds or allergies during pregnancy.  Loratadine and oral cetirizine are acceptable alternatives to first-generation antihistamines like diphenhydramine, based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy. Both the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM) recommend acetaminophen as the first-line pharmacological therapy for pain and/or fever during pregnancy; use at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time. Counsel pregnant patients to limit long-term or high-dose use to indications discussed with a health care provider. Published epidemiological studies of oral acetaminophen have not reported a clear association with acetaminophen use during pregnancy and birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Large observational studies of newborns exposed to oral acetaminophen during the first trimester have not shown an increased risk for congenital malformations or major birth defects; however, these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of risk because of methodological limitations.


Interactions

Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
ALFentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Amikacin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
Aminoglycosides: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Amobarbital: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when amoxapine is used concomitantly with drugs are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature Additive sedation may also occur.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Antacids: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and diphenhydramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Use caution if acetaminophen and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in acetaminophen-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Acetaminophen is a minor (10 to 15%) substrate of CYP3A4. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of acetaminophen. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important. (Minor) Use caution if diphenhydramine and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for a possible decrease in the efficacy of diphenhydramine. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares the same drug interactions. Diphenhydramine is a CYP2C9 substrate and aprepitant is a CYP2C9 inducer. Administration of a CYP2C9 substrate, tolbutamide, on days 1, 4, 8, and 15 with a 3-day regimen of oral aprepitant (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg) decreased the tolbutamide AUC by 23% on day 4, 28% on day 8, and 15% on day 15. The AUC of tolbutamide was decreased by 8% on day 2, 16% on day 4, 15% on day 8, and 10% on day 15 when given prior to oral administration of aprepitant 40 mg on day 1, and on days 2, 4, 8, and 15. The effects of aprepitant on tolbutamide were not considered significant. When a 3-day regimen of aprepitant (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg) given to healthy patients on stabilized chronic warfarin therapy (another CYP2C9 substrate), a 34% decrease in S-warfarin trough concentrations was noted, accompanied by a 14% decrease in the INR at five days after completion of aprepitant.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of diphenhydramine. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus diphenhydramine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Azelastine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including skeletal muscle relaxants, such as baclofen.
Barbiturates: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and belladonna use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and benztropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as diphenhydramine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant prescribing of buprenorphine and diphenhydramine for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Gradually tapering a patient off other CNS depressants or decreasing to the lowest effective dose is preferred in most cases of patients being treated for opioid use disorder. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Also monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant use. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Reserve concomitant prescribing of buprenorphine and diphenhydramine for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Gradually tapering a patient off other CNS depressants or decreasing to the lowest effective dose is preferred in most cases of patients being treated for opioid use disorder. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Also monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant use. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Busulfan: (Moderate) Use busulfan and acetaminophen together with caution; concomitant use may result in increased busulfan levels and increased busulfan toxicity. Separating the administration of these drugs may mitigate this interaction; avoid giving acetaminophen within 72 hours prior to or concurrently with busulfan. Busulfan is metabolized in the liver through conjugation with glutathione; acetaminophen decreases glutathione levels in the blood and tissues and may reduce the clearance of busulfan.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with sedating H1-blockers can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on CNS and/or respiratory depression. Use together with caution. If a CNS depressant needs to be used with butorphanol, use the smallest effective dose and the longest dosing frequency of butorphanol.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and sedating H1-blockers. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Carbamazepine may potentially accelerate the hepatic metabolism of acetaminophen. In addition, due to enzyme induction, carbamazepine may increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Clinicians should be alert to decreased effect of acetaminophen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary, and closer monitoring of clinical and/or adverse effects is warranted.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of cariprazine, caution should be used when cariprazine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like diphenhydramine.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Charcoal: (Minor) Activated charcoal binds many drugs within the gut. Administering charcoal dietary supplements at the same time as a routine acetaminophen dosage would be expected to interfere with the analgesic and antipyretic efficacy of acetaminophen. Charcoal is mostly used in the setting of acetaminophen overdose; however, patients should never try to treat an acetaminophen overdose with charcoal dietary supplements. Advise patients to get immediate medical attention for an acetaminophen overdose.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of chloroprocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue chloroprocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when chlorpromazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Prolonged concurrent use of acetaminophen and salicylates is not recommended. Although salicylates are rarely associated with nephrotoxicity, high-dose, chronic administration of salicylates combined other analgesics, including acetaminophen, significantly increases the risk of analgesic nephropathy, renal papillary necrosis, and end-stage renal disease. Additive hepatic toxicity may occur, especially in combined overdose situations. Do not exceed the recommended individual maximum doses when these agents are given concurrently for short-term therapy.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects. Additive drowsiness may occur when clobazam is combined with CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. In addition, caution is recommended when administering clobazam with medications extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 such as diphenhydramine because clobazam has been shown to inhibit CYP2D6 in vivo and may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine exhibits clinically significant anticholinergic effects and sedation that may be additive with other medications that may cause anticholinergic effects and sedation, including antihistamines such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines and to avoid tasks requiring mental alertness until they are aware of the effects of the combination.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cyclobenzaprine and diphenhydramine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect (e.g., drowsiness) may occur when dantrolene is combined with other CNS depressants.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Coadministration of dapsone with acetaminophen may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Advise patients to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention with any signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Desflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Desloratadine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as diphenhydramine, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Consider a dosage reduction for dexmedetomidine or the sedating antihistamine during concomitant use due to the risk of additive CNS effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended when administering quinidine with medications extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 such as diphenhydramine because quinidine inhibits CYP2D6 and may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and dicyclomine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Acetaminophen plasma concentrations can increase by approximately 50% following administration of diflunisal. Acetaminophen has no effect on diflunisal concentrations. Acetaminophen in high doses has been associated with severe hepatotoxic reactions; therefore, caution should be exercised when using these agents concomitantly.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of sedating H1-blockers, such as diphenhydramine, may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including disopyramide. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and donepezil should be avoided if possible. Donepezil inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of donepezil.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and donepezil should be avoided if possible. Donepezil inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of donepezil.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Doxercalciferol is converted in the liver to its active metabolites. Although not specifically studied, cytochrome P450 enzyme inhibitors including diphenhydramine may inhibit the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol, thereby decreasing the formation of the active metabolite and thus, decreasing efficacy. Patients should be monitored for a decrease in efficacy if products containing diphenhydramine are coadministered with doxercalciferol.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Minor) Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP2D6. However, these drugs are often used together in treatment.
DOXOrubicin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP2D6. However, these drugs are often used together in treatment.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with antihistamines is necessary. Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with antihistamines may result in additive drowsiness, hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Diphenhydramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers have additive or potentiating sedative and other CNS effects with droperidol. Following administration of droperidol, lower doses of the other CNS depressant may need to be used.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as diphenhydramine. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Eliglustat: (Major) In extensive or intermediate CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs or IMs), coadministration of scheduled diphenhydramine and eliglustat requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily during the course of antihistamine treatment; however coadministration of eliglustat with both diphenhydramine and a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor is contraindicated. It is unclear whether a single dose of diphenhydramine warrants modification of eliglustat therapy. Diphenhydramine is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6; eliglustat is a substrate and inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration of eliglustat with CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as diphenhydramine, may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias); the effects of a single diphenhydramine dose are unknown. In addition, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP2D6 substrates (e.g., diphenhydramine) may result in increased concentrations of the concomitant drug; monitor patients closely for anticholinergic adverse events.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is a UDP-glucuronyltransferase inhibitor. Acetaminophen is a substrate of UDP-glucuronyltransferases. The significance or effect of this interaction is not known; however, elevated concentrations of acetaminophen are possible. Monitor patients for adverse reactions if these drugs are coadministered.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when elvitegravir is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for decreased diphenhydramine concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate of CYP2C9, while elvitegravir is a CYP2C9 inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when elvitegravir is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for decreased diphenhydramine concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate of CYP2C9, while elvitegravir is a CYP2C9 inducer.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and diphenhydramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone and concomitantly administered CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression. (Major) The risk of developing hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen appears to be increased in patients who regularly consume alcohol. Patients who drink more than 3 alcohol-containing drinks a day and take acetaminophen are at increased risk of developing hepatotoxicity. Acute or chronic alcohol use increases acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by inducing CYP2E1 leading to increased formation of the hepatotoxic metabolite of acetaminophen. Also, chronic alcohol use can deplete liver glutathione stores. Administration of acetaminophen should be limited or avoided altogether in patients with alcoholism or patients who consume alcohol regularly.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Etomidate: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Exenatide: (Minor) Although an interaction is possible, these drugs may be used together. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least 1 hour prior to an exenatide injection. When 1,000 mg acetaminophen elixir was given with 10 mcg exenatide (at 0 hours) and at 1, 2 and 4 hours after exenatide injection, acetaminophen AUCs were decreased by 21%, 23%, 24%, and 14%, respectively; Cmax was decreased by 37%, 56%, 54%, and 41%, respectively. Additionally, acetaminophen Tmax was delayed from 0.6 hours in the control period to 0.9, 4.2, 3.3, and 1.6 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before exenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying from exenatide use) and the clinical impact has not been assessed.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and diphenhydramine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and flavoxate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, may increase the risk of CNS depression (e.g., dizziness, somnolence) compared to the use of flibanserin alone. Patients should avoid activities requiring full alertness (e.g., operating machinery or driving) until at least 6 hours after each dose and until they know how flibanserin affects them.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Additive sedative effects may be seen when fluphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of diphenhydramine and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Galantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Gentamicin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants such as diphenhydramine, a sedating H1-blocker. Additive anticholinergic effects may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or CNS effects may also occur.
Heparin: (Minor) Antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant actions of heparin, according to the product labels. However, this interaction is not likely of clinical significance since heparin therapy is adjusted to the partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and other clinical parameters of the patient.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and homatropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hydantoins: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when iloperidone is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Imatinib: (Major) Imatinib, STI-571 may affect the metabolism of acetaminophen. In vitro, imatinib was found to inhibit acetaminophen O-glucuronidation at therapeutic levels. Therefore, systemic exposure to acetaminophen is expected to be increased with coadministration of imatinib. Chronic acetaminophen therapy should be avoided in patients receiving imatinib.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with acetaminophen may result in increased serum concentrations of acetaminophen. Acetaminophen is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Isoflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Agents which induce the hepatic isoenzyme CYP2E1, such as isoniazid, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolites. The combination of isoniazid and acetaminophen has caused severe hepatotoxicity in at least one patient; studies in rats have demonstrated that pre-treatment with isoniazid potentiates acetaminophen hepatotoxicity.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant isoproterenol and diphenhydramine use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Diphenhydramine may potentiate the effects of isoproterenol.
Ivacaftor: (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as diphenhydramine. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Ketamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for possible loss of lamotrigine efficacy and seizure activity during coadministration with acetaminophen. Acetaminophen may induce glucuronidation pathways involved in lamotrigine metabolism. During a study among 12 healthy volunteers, concomitant administration of acetaminophen 4 g/day with lamotrigine at steady-state increased the formation clearance of lamotrigine glucuronide conjugates by 45%, decreased lamotrigine AUC by 20%, and reduced lamotrigine trough concentrations by 25%.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with lemborexant.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levorphanol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and lofexidine due to the potential for additive CNS depressant effects. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenhydramine with ritonavir may result in elevated plasma concentrations of diphenhydramine. Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 substrate, and ritonavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Loratadine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are associated with anticholinergic effects and sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having anticholinergic activity and CNS depressant properties such as traditional antipsychotic agents, including loxapine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Concomitant use of diphenhydramine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter diphenhydramine exposure; monitor for diphenhydramine efficacy and adverse events. Diphenhydramine is partially metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. In vitro data suggest that lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce CYP2C19 and induce and/or inhibit CYP2C9. Although induction of diphenhydramine through the CYP2C19 pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on CYP2C9-mediated metabolism is not clear. (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as diphenhydramine. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Concomitant use of diphenhydramine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter diphenhydramine exposure; monitor for diphenhydramine efficacy and adverse events. Diphenhydramine is partially metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. In vitro data suggest that lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce CYP2C19 and induce and/or inhibit CYP2C9. Although induction of diphenhydramine through the CYP2C19 pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on CYP2C9-mediated metabolism is not clear.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and diphenhydramine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications. Sedating H1-blockers are associated with sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having CNS depressant properties such as antipsychotics. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Magnesium Salts: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Meclizine: (Major) The anticholinergic and sedative effects of meclizine may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with antimuscarinic activity, including other sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of melatonin and sedating H1-blockers due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Meperidine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mepivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue mepivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Methadone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Methohexital: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for metoprolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with diphenhydramine. Concomitant use may increase metoprolol serum concentrations which would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Metoprolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for metoprolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with diphenhydramine. Concomitant use may increase metoprolol serum concentrations which would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Metoprolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
metyraPONE: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with sedating H1-blockers can result in additive sedative effects.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes such as diphenhydramine may be increased when co-administered with mirabegron. Diphenhydramine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6. Therefore, appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and mirtazapine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Molindone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Morphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the effects of nalbuphine on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of nebivolol if coadministered with diphenhydramine; adjust the nebivolol dose according to blood pressure response. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of nebivolol. Nebivolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including nefazodone.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenhydramine with ritonavir may result in elevated plasma concentrations of diphenhydramine. Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 substrate, and ritonavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
Oliceridine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Opiate Agonists: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Diphenhydramine is metabolized by CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6; oritavancin is a weak inducer of CYP2D6 and a weak CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in altered diphenhydramine plasma concentrations. If these drugs are administered concurrently, monitor for diphenydramine toxicity, such as drowsiness, or decreased effectiveness.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and oxybutynin use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of drugs with CNS depressant effects, including paliperidone and diphenhydramine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Monitor for signs and symptoms of CNS depression and advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of papaverine with potent CNS depressants such as diphenhydramine could lead to enhanced sedation.
Paromomycin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with diphenhydramine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase paroxetine exposure and risk for additive anticholinergic adverse effects. Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to diphenhydramine if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 inhibitor, while diphenhydramine is a CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 substrate.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Use pentazocine with caution in any patient receiving medication with CNS depressant and/or anticholinergic activity. Coadministration of pentazocine with sedating H1-blockers may result in additive respiratory and CNS depression and anticholinergic effects, such as urinary retention and constipation.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Phenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Due to the effects of pimozide on cognition, it should be used cautiously with other CNS depressants including sedating antihistamines. Sedating H1-blockers are associated with anticholinergic effects and sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with pimozide. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with diphenhydramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like diphenhydramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Plazomicin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and acetaminophen should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for acetaminophen-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of acetaminophen. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for acetaminophen-related adverse events.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pramipexole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of pramipexole.
Pramlintide: (Minor) Because pramlintide has the potential to delay the absorption of concomitantly administered medications, medications should be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after pramlintide injection when the rapid onset of a concomitantly administered oral medication is a critical determinant of effectiveness (i.e., analgesics).
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of diphenhydramine and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Primidone: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Procarbazine: (Moderate) Use procarbazine and sedating H1-blockers together with caution; additive central nervous system depression may occur.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when Prochlorperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Propofol: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and quetiapine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended when administering quinidine with medications extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 such as diphenhydramine because quinidine inhibits CYP2D6 and may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as ramelteon.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and sedating H1-blockers (sedating antihistamines) may result in additive sedation, anticholinergic effects, or hypotensive reactions. Rasagiline may be less likely to produce these interactions than other MAOIs, due to MAO-B selectivity. However, consider alternatives therapy to antihistamines where possible. If alternative combinations are not available, these medications may be used together with close monitoring. Many non-prescription products for coughs, colds, allergy, hay fever or insomnia contain sedating antihistamines. Patients receiving rasagiline should be counseled that it is essential to consult their healthcare provider or pharmacist prior to the use of any non-prescription products. Patients should also be advised against driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Remifentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of acetaminophen with rifampin may increase the known risk of hepatotoxicity in relation to each drug. Severe hepatic dysfunction including fatalities were reported in patients taking rifampin with other hepatotoxic agents.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution is advisable when risperidone is given with other centrally acting medications including sedating H1-blockers such as diphenhydramine. This combination is commonly used in clinical practice; however, additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur. Patients should be informed of the risk of driving or performing other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of these medicines are known.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenhydramine with ritonavir may result in elevated plasma concentrations of diphenhydramine. Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 substrate, and ritonavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and rivastigmine should be avoided if possible. Rivastigmine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of rivastigmine.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if diphenhydramine and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for diphenhydramine-related adverse effects. Consider if another antihistamine would be a better choice for treatment. Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant is expected to persist beyond 28 days for an unknown duration. Exposure to another CYP2D6 substrate, following a single dose of rolapitant increased about 3-fold on Days 8 and Day 22. The inhibition of CYP2D6 persisted on Day 28 with a 2.3-fold increase in the CYP2D6 substrate concentrations, the last time point measured.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue ropivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of rotigotine with other CNS depressants, such as diphenhydramine, can potentiate the sedation effects of rotigotine.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Secobarbital: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and selegiline due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Sevoflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by concurrent medications, including H1-blockers. False study results are possible; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like solifenacin are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as diphenhydramine.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Minor) St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum induces cytochrome P450 1A2. About 10 to 15% of the acetaminophen dose undergoes oxidative metabolism via cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2E1, 3A4 and 1A2, which produces the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinonimine. Thus, theoretically St. John's wort might increase the risk of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to NAPQI.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and diphenhydramine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
Streptomycin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
SUFentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Tapentadol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as tasimelteon.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as diphenhydramine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tetracaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue tetracaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as diphenhydramine. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with opiate agonists; antihistamines; antipsychotics; anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics; and other central nervous system depressants due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Diphenhydramine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and the use of thioridazine concomitantly with CYP2D6 inhibitors is contraindicated due to the possible risk of QT prolongation and subsequent arrhythmias, or other serious side effects, occurring from elevated serum concentrations of thioridazine. Also, additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when thioridazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Consider if an alternative to diphenhydramine would be appropriate for the patient's condition.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when antipsychotics, such as thiothixene, are used concomitantly with other drugs such as sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Tobramycin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and trazodone due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when Trifluoperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and trihexyphenidyl use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and acetaminophen may result in altered concentrations of acetaminophen. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 and CYP2A6, and an inducer of CYP3A4. Acetaminophen is a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy. (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and diphenhydramine may result in increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Vemurafenib is a CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6 inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate of these isoenzymes. Patients should be monitored for toxicity and sedation.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given with sedating H1-blockers.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Also, Cyproheptadine is an antagonist of serotonin in the CNS, a property which may oppose some of the pharmacologic effects of vilazodone. Cyproheptadine has been used for the management of orgasm dysfunction caused by the serotonergic antidepressants and for the adjunctive treatment of serotonin syndrome; however, a reversal of antidepressant effects may occur when cyproheptadine is given in a routine manner along with the antidepressant. Clinically, cyproheptadine reportedly has interfered with the antidepressant and anti-bulimia actions of fluoxetine, but more data are needed to confirm a direct drug-drug interaction.
Warfarin: (Minor) Although acetaminophen is routinely considered safer than aspirin and agent of choice when a mild analgesic/antipyretic is necessary for a patient receiving therapy with warfarin, acetaminophen has also been shown to augment the hypoprothrombinemic response to warfarin. Concomitant acetaminophen ingestion may result in increases in the INR in a dose-related fashion. Clinical bleeding has been reported. Single doses or short (i.e., several days) courses of treatment with acetaminophen are probably safe in most patients taking warfarin. Clinicians should be alert for an increased INR if acetaminophen is administered in large daily doses for longer than 10 to 14 days.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zaleplon due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are associated with sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having CNS depressant properties such as antipsychotics. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur with ziprasidone.
ZOLMitriptan: (Minor) Zolmitriptan can delay the Tmax of acetaminophen by one hour. A single 1 g dose of acetaminophen does not alter the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan and its active metabolite. The interaction between zolmitriptan and acetaminophen is not likely to be clinically significant.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zolpidem due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary. Limit the dose of Intermezzo sublingual tablets to 1.75 mg/day.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: This monograph discusses adverse reactions with acetaminophen; diphenhydramine combination products. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.

elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice


The hepatic effects of acetaminophen are well-known. In a study of combined data collected over a 5-year period (1998 to 2003) from 22 specialty medical centers in the United States, acetaminophen-induced liver injury was the leading cause of acute hepatic failure. Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing. Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity is manifested as hepatic necrosis, jaundice, and hepatic encephalopathy. Early nonspecific symptoms include nausea/emesis, loss of appetite, abdominal pain, and malaise. After acute overdose, elevated hepatic enzymes occur within 12 to 36 hours and maximal liver damage and hepatic impairment peak 3 to 5 days after ingestion. GI bleeding can occur secondary to hypoprothrombinemia. Administration of intravenous vitamin K is recommended for hypoprothrombinemia due to acetaminophen overdosage. If more than 150 to 200 mg/kg, 10 g, or an unknown amount of acetaminophen is ingested, obtain a serum acetaminophen concentration 4 hours after ingestion or as soon as possible thereafter. Promptly administer N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which serves as a substitute sulfhydryl donor for glutathione, if the acetaminophen concentration plots above the treatment line on the Rumack-Matthew nomogram. NAC treatment should begin immediately if the estimated time after ingestion approaches 8 hours. Avoid acetaminophen misuse; do not exceed recommended doses and account for intake from all sources (e.g., single-entity products and combination products). Excessive acetaminophen exposure, malnutrition, concurrent ethanol consumption (acute and chronic), and/or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid) may lead to greater exposure of the toxic metabolite, N-acetyl-para-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI), and increase the risk for toxicity.


interstitial nephritis, renal failure (unspecified), renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis


Acetaminophen has been associated with chronic analgesic nephropathy, a condition characterized by interstitial nephritis and renal papillary necrosis in patients receiving large doses of analgesics for an extended time. There appears to be a weak association between chronic use and the prevalence of chronic renal failure (unspecified) and end-stage renal disease. In addition, acetaminophen overdose can result in acute renal failure and renal tubular necrosis, though such toxicity rarely occurs without severe hepatic toxicity. The risk of renal complications appears to be higher in patients with poor nutrition, chronic alcohol consumption, or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid).


acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, chills, contact dermatitis, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, hyperhidrosis, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Hypersensitivity reactions to acetaminophen may be manifested by urticaria, erythema, rash, maculopapular rash, pruritus, and fever. Though rare, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. Acetaminophen has been associated with a risk of rare but serious and sometimes fatal skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). These reactions can occur at any time during acetaminophen use, even after the first dose. Discontinue acetaminophen immediately and seek medical attention for symptomatic treatment in patients who develop dermatologic or hypersensitivity reactions. SJS and TEN usually begin with flu-like symptoms followed by rash, blistering, and sloughing, all of which spread from the face downwards to the entire body (including palms of hands and soles of feet); recovery ranges from weeks to months and complications include corneal ulcerations, blindness, and internal organ damage. AGEP is typically a less severe reaction, characterized by acute onset, fever, and nonfollicular pustules on an erythematous rash; it usually resolves within 2 weeks of drug discontinuation. In addition to the aforementioned skin reactions, multiple cases of allergic contact dermatitis (delayed hypersensitivity type) have been reported in the literature. Various other skin reactions, including generalized pruriginous micropapular eruption, facial edema, generalized pruriginous exanthem, exfoliative dermatitis, and generalized exanthema have occurred within several hours after acetaminophen ingestion. Dermatological, general, and/or allergic adverse effects of diphenhydramine may include urticaria, drug rash, anaphylactic shock, photosensitivity, excessive perspiration (hyperhidrosis), chills, and dryness of the mouth, nose, and throat.


asthenia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, fatigue, headache, neuritis, paresthesias, psychomotor impairment, tinnitus, tremor, vertigo


CNS depression manifested as drowsiness (sedation) and/or dizziness (2.5%) can occur during therapy with diphenhydramine. Other less frequently occurring CNS effects of sedating antihistamines include disturbed coordination, fatigue, confusion, nervousness, tremor, euphoria, paresthesias, vertigo, tinnitus, acute labyrinthitis, and neuritis. Asthenia and headache have been reported with use of diphenhydramine in some published studies. Psychomotor impairment is also possible with diphenhydramine use and this may affect driving or other hazardous tasks. There is considerable individual patient response to sedative effects, so patients should be warned of the possible impairment of mental acuity. First-generation sedating antihistamines are most likely to cause dizziness and sedation in elderly patients. If sedation persists or is severe, a dosage reduction or switching to a non-sedating antihistamine may be advisable.


agitation, excitability, insomnia, irritability, restlessness, seizures


Diphenhydramine can cause CNS stimulation (paradoxical excitation); this excitability is more likely to occur in children. CNS stimulatory symptoms may include agitation, nervousness, restlessness, insomnia, increased heart rate, irritability, muscle spasms, and in severe cases, seizures. 


anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia


The anticholinergic effects of first-generation sedating antihistamines are widely known to cause such effects as dry mouth (xerostomia). Xerostomia is a relatively common adverse effect (incidence of 4.9% or more). Other GI effects include dyspepsia (epigastric distress), anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation.


menstrual irregularity, urinary retention


Diphenhydramine is associated with genitourinary effects such as a change in urinary frequency, difficult urination, urinary retention, and early menses (menstrual irregularity). Urinary retention is usually associated with anticholinergic actions of sedating antihistamines.


blurred vision, diplopia, mydriasis, xerophthalmia

Diphenhydramine possesses a significant degree of anticholinergic and nervous system effects, which can result in ocular effects such as xerophthalmia, blurred vision, diplopia, and mydriasis.

agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis


Hematologic adverse events that may occur rarely with diphenhydramine use include hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and agranulocytosis. Sporadic case reports of agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, neutropenia, and pancytopenia have been described in patients taking acetaminophen. Investigate symptoms such as unusual tiredness or weakness, unusual bleeding or bruising, and unexplained sore throat or fever promptly.


hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia


Cardiovascular effects of diphenhydramine and other first-generation sedating antihistamines are not common but can include hypotension, headache, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, and extrasystoles. Antihistamines are most likely to cause dizziness and hypotension in elderly patients.


medication overuse headache, withdrawal


Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including acetaminophen, may lead to medication overuse headache. Patients may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise patients about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of acetaminophen for at least 15 days/month or any combination of therapy for 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use. Pediatric guidelines recommend no more than 14 days/month of over-the-counter medication and no more than 9 days/month of any combination of therapy to avoid medication overuse headache.


hearing loss


Prospective studies have shown there to be a slight but consistent association between regular analgesic use and hearing loss. Acetaminophen-related ototoxicity may result from depletion of glutathione, which protects the cochlea from noise damage. As a true long-term association may exist, counsel patients to minimize long-term treatment with acetaminophen as much as possible. These studies suggest association of the drug with hearing loss; however, the data are based on patient reporting of the outcomes and information regarding noise exposure and analgesic doses was not provided.


nasal congestion, nasal dryness, wheezing


Diphenhydramine possesses a significant degree of anticholinergic effects, which can result in thickening of bronchial secretions. Chest or throat tightness, wheezing, nasal congestion, nasal dryness, and dryness of the throat or mouth have also been reported.


Description

Acetaminophen and diphenhydramine are used together in an oral preparation either to provide temporary relief of occasional headache or mild aches and pain in patients with insomnia (sleeplessness) or to provide temporary relief of the symptoms of allergic respiratory conditions accompanied by fever or mild aches and pains. Acetaminophen is a non-narcotic, non-salicylate analgesic. Diphenhydramine is a sedating antihistamine (H1-blocker) of the ethanolamine class with strong anticholinergic activity commonly used to block histaminic responses and to facilitate sleep. Acetaminophen; diphenhydramine has a significant potential for toxicity in overdose secondary to acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity and diphenhydramine-induced CNS depression. The maximum recommended total daily dose of acetaminophen is not to be exceeded.

Mechanism Of Action

Together, acetaminophen; diphenhydramine combinations relieve pain, facilitate sleep, and/or provide temporary relief of itchy or watery eyes, rhinorrhea, sneezing, sore throat, or pruritus of the nose or throat due to hay fever or other respiratory allergies.
 
•Acetaminophen: Acetaminophen appears to act within the CNS. Acetaminophen appears to increase the pain threshold by inhibiting central cyclooxygenase, an enzyme involved in prostaglandin (PG) synthesis (see Acetaminophen monograph). Acetaminophen inhibits both isoforms of central cyclooxygenase, COX-1 and COX-2. Acetaminophen does not inhibit PG synthesis in peripheral tissues, which is the reason for its lack of peripheral anti-inflammatory effects.
 
•Diphenhydramine: Diphenhydramine competes with free histamine for binding at H1-receptor sites. Diphenhydramine competitively antagonizes the effects of histamine on H1-receptors in the GI tract, uterus, large blood vessels, and bronchial muscle. Blockade of H1-receptors also suppresses the formation of edema, flare, and pruritus that result from histaminic activity. In addition, this drug has anticholinergic action and antiemetic effects seemingly due to a central antimuscarinic effect; diphenhydramine has a direct suppressive action on the cough center and causes sedation via CNS depression. After prolonged use of diphenhydramine, tolerance can occur, but this may be beneficial because of reduced sedative effects.

Pharmacokinetics

Acetaminophen; diphenhydramine combination products are administered orally.
Acetaminophen: Acetaminophen is metabolized in the liver via glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation and is excreted in the urine as glutathione and sulfate conjugates. However, about 10—15% of acetaminophen from a therapeutic dose undergoes oxidative metabolism via cytochrome P450 isoenzymes (CYP) 2E1 and 1A2 and then glucuronidation to cysteine and mercapturic acid conjugates. In cases of glucuronide depletion, such as acetaminophen overdose, a hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-para-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI), is formed. The half-life of acetaminophen in patients with normal hepatic function is 2—4 hours. Acetaminophen is renally excreted mainly as the glucuronide conjugate.
Diphenhydramine: Diphenhydramine is highly protein-bound. It is widely distributed in body tissues and fluids, and it crosses the placenta and is excreted into breast milk. Diphenhydramine metabolism occurs in the liver to produce diphenylmethoxyacetic acid, which then becomes conjugated; other metabolites are also formed. The plasma half-life is between 2—8 hours. Most unchanged drug and metabolites are excreted renally within 24—48 hours of a dose.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Acetaminophen: Acetaminophen is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the GI tract. Absorption may be decreased if taken with a high-carbohydrate meal. Approximately 85% of a dose appears in the urine within 24 hours of oral administration.
Diphenhydramine: Diphenhydramine is well absorbed from the GI tract. Onset of action after oral administration occurs in 15—30 minutes, with peak concentrations occurring in about 2—4 hours. The duration of action ranges from 4—6 hours. The maximum sedative effect of the drug occurs 1—3 hours after administration.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Follow the specific label instructions for the product chosen.


Oral Solid Formulations

Tablet
No specific administration instructions apply. Follow instructions on label.
 
Tablets or Gelcaps for pain with sleeplessness
Administer the dosage at bedtime.
Gelcaps should be swallowed whole.
 
Oral powder (e.g., Goodys PM powder)
Place powder dosage on tongue. Drink a full glass of water with each dose. Alternatively, may stir powder into a glass of water or other liquid and drink.
Products that are labeled for nighttime use/sleep should be given at bedtime.


Oral Liquid Formulations

Oral solution
To ensure accurate dosing, administer each dose using a calibrated oral measuring device.
Products that are labeled for nighttime use/sleep should be given at bedtime.


Maximum Dosage Limits

The following maximum dosages are based on the consumer product labels for various acetaminophen; diphenhydramine combination non-prescription products.

Adults

1,000 mg acetaminophen and 50 mg diphenhydramine PO per night for insomnia; 3,000 mg/day PO acetaminophen and 100 mg/day PO diphenhydramine for other uses.

Geriatric

1,000 mg acetaminophen and 50 mg diphenhydramine PO per night for insomnia; 3,000 mg/day PO acetaminophen and 100 mg/day PO diphenhydramine for other uses.

Adolescents

1,000 mg acetaminophen and 50 mg diphenhydramine PO per night for insomnia; 3,000 mg/day PO acetaminophen and 100 mg/day PO diphenhydramine for other uses.

Children

12 years: 1,000 mg acetaminophen and 50 mg diphenhydramine PO per night for insomnia; 3,000 mg/day PO acetaminophen and 100 mg/day PO diphenhydramine for other uses.
1 to 12 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Acetaminophen 500mg, Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride 25mg Oral tablet

Chloraseptic Nighttime Sore Throat Soothing Hot Relief 650mg-25mg Powder for Solution (Honey Lemon)

CVS Acetaminophen PM 500mg-25mg Extra Strength Caplet

CVS Daytime/Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Combo Pack

CVS Flu & Sore Throat Solution

CVS Pain Relief PM Aspirin Free Tablet

CVS Pain Relief PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Caplet

CVS Pain Relief PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Geltab

CVS Pain Relief PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Rapid Release Gelcap

CVS Pain Relief PM Extra Strength Effervescent Tablet

CVS Pain Relief PM Solution (Berry)

CVS Severe Allergy & Sinus Headache Maximum Strength Caplet

CVS Severe Cold & Flu Nighttime Relief Solution (Berry)

CVS Severe Cold Multi-Symptom/Severe Cold & Cough Nighttime Powder for Solution

CVS Severe Cold Relief PE Caplet

CVS Severe Congestion Relief Nighttime Maximum Strength Solution

CVS Severe Cough & Cold Daytime/Nighttime Powder for Solution

CVS Severe Cough & Cold Nighttime Powder for Solution

CVS Sinus Relief Daytime/Nighttime Maximum Strength Caplet

CVS Tussin CF Adult Cough + Cold Nighttime Liquid

Cystex PM 500mg-25mg Caplet

Delsym Children's Cough + Chest Congestion + Cold Day and Night Combo Pack Solution

Delsym Children's Cough + Cold Nighttime Solution (Berry)

Diabetic Tussin Nighttime 325mg-10mg-12.5mg/5mL Solution

Diabetic Tussin Nighttime Solution

Equaline PM 500mg-25mg Extra Strength Caplet

Equate Severe Allergy Plus Sinus Headache 325mg-25mg-5mg Caplet

Excedrin PM Caplet

Excedrin PM Headache Caplet

Excedrin PM Tablet

Foster & Thrive Pain Relief PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Geltab

GNP PM Pain Relief Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Caplet

GoodSense Extra Strength Pain Relief PM 500mg-25mg Caplet

GoodSense Headache PM 500mg-25mg Tablet

Goody's PM Fast Pain Relief Sleep Aid 500mg-38mg Powder

Goody's PM Powder

Goody's PM Powder

Health Mart Severe Cold & Cough & Flu Nighttime Powder for Solution

Health Star Night Time Pain Medicine Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Caplet

Leader Acetaminophen PM 500mg-25mg Extra Strength Caplet

Leader Flu & Severe Cold & Cough Nighttime Powder for Solution

Leader Severe Cold & Cough Nighttime Powder for Solution (Honey Lemon)

Midol PM 500mg-38mg Caplet

Mucinex Children's Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold Liquid

Mucinex Children's Night Time Multi-Symptom Cold 325mg-12.5mg-5mg/10mL Liquid (Very Berry)

Mucinex Sinus-Max Night Time Congestion & Cough Solution

Panadol PM 500mg-25mg Extra Strength Caplet

Percogesic 500mg-12.5mg Extra Strength Caplet

Percogesic 500mg-12.5mg Extra Strength Caplet

Premier Value Allergy & Sinus Headache Relief Caplet

Premier Value Allergy Relief Plus Sinus Headache Severe 325mg-25mg-5mg Caplet

Premier Value Flu Relief Therapy NightTime Solution

Premier Value Nighttime Pain Plus Sleep Solution (Cool Mint)

Premier Value Non-Aspirin PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Caplet

Premier Value Non-Aspirin PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Geltab

Premier Value Pain Reliever PM Extra Strength Caplet

Premier Value Severe Cold 325mg-12.5mg-5mg Caplet

Publix Pain Relief PM Extra Strength Caplet

Publix Pain Relief PM Extra Strength Geltab

Quality Choice Acetaminophen PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Rapid Release Gelcap

Quality Choice Pain Relief PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Geltab

RITE AID Acetaminophen PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Caplet

RITE AID Acetaminophen PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Geltab

RITE AID Daytime/Nighttime Cough & Cold Relief PE Caplets

RITE AID Severe Allergy Plus SINUS HEADACHE Caplet

RITE AID Severe Cold & Cough Relief Nighttime Powder for Solution

RITE AID Severe Cold & Sinus Relief PE Caplet

Robitussin Severe Multi-Symptom Daytime/Nighttime Cough Cold + Flu Maximum Strength Solution (Berry)

Robitussin Severe Multi-Symptom Nighttime Cough Cold + Flu Maximum Strength Solution

Select Brand Pain Reliever PM 500mg-25mg Caplet

Theraflu ExpressMax Severe Cold & Cough Nighttime Warming Caplet

Theraflu Flu and Sore Throat Warming Solution

Theraflu Multi-Symptom Severe Cold & Cough Daytime/Nighttime Powder for Solution

Theraflu Multi-Symptom Severe Cold Relief Nighttime 650mg-25mg Powder for Solution (Honey Lemon)

Theraflu PowerPods Severe Cold NighttimePod (Honey Lemon)

Theraflu Severe Cold & Cough Daytime/Nighttime Powder for Solution

Theraflu Severe Cold & Cough Nighttime Powder for Solution

Theraflu Severe Cold & Cough Nighttime Powder for Solution

Theraflu Severe Cold and Cough Daytime and Nighttime Waming Solution

Theraflu Severe Cold and Cough Nighttime Warming Solution

Theraflu Sinus and Cold Warming Solution

Today's Health Acetaminophen PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Caplet

Today's Health Allergy and Cold 325mg-12.5mg-5mg Caplet

Today's Health Allergy Relief + Sinus Headache 325mg-12.5mg-5mg Caplet

Today's Health Pain Reliever PM Extra Strength Geltab

Top Care Headache PM 500mg-25mg Tablet

Top Care Pain Relief PM 500mg-25mg Caplet

Top Care Pain Relief PM 500mg-25mg Rapid Release Gelcap

Tylenol PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Caplet

Unisom PM Pain 325mg-50mg Caplet

Wal-Dryl Severe Allergy & Sinus Headache Maximum Strength 325mg-25mg-5mg Caplet

Wal-Flu Daytime Flu & Severe Cold/Nighttime Flu & Severe Cold Powder for Solution

Wal-Flu Severe Cold & Cough Daytime/Nighttime Powder for Solution

Wal-Flu Severe Cold & Cough Nighttime Powder for Solution

Wal-Flu Severe Cold & Cough Powder for Solution (Honey Lemon)

Wal-Phed PE Day/Night Cold Caplet

Wal-phed PE Severe Cold 325mg-12.5mg-5mg Caplet

Walgreens Acetaminophen PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Caplet

Walgreens Acetaminophen PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Gelcap

Walgreens Acetaminophen PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Geltab

Walgreens Allergy Multi-Symptom Night/Day Caplet Combo Pack

Walgreens Allergy Multi-Symptom Nighttime Cool Caplet

Walgreens Children's Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold Combo Pack

Walgreens Cough & Cold Nighttime Liquid (Mixed Berry)

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Combo Pack

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Severe Congestion & Cough/Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Combo Pack

Walgreens Headache Relief PM Caplet

Walgreens Headache Relief PM Tablet

Walgreens Nighttime Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Liquid

Walgreens Pain Reliever PM 500mg-25mg Tablet

Walgreens Pain Reliever PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Caplet

Walgreens Pain Reliever PM Extra Strength 500mg-25mg Geltab

Walgreens Severe Allergy & Sinus Headache Maximum Strength 325mg-25mg-5mg Caplet

Walgreens Severe Allergy 500mg-12.5mg Caplet

Walgreens Severe Congestion & Cough Daytime/Cold & Flu Nighttime Pack Caplet

Walgreens Wal-Flu Multi-Symptom Cold & Cough Daytime/Nighttime Powder for Solution

Walgreens Wal-Flu Severe Cold & Cough Nighttime Powder for Solution (Honey Lemon)

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Dosage should be modified depending on clinical response and degree of hepatic impairment; no quantitative recommendations are available. Patients with impaired hepatic function are at increased risk of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity; both acetaminophen and diphenhydramine are extensively metabolized in the liver.

Renal Impairment

Dosage should be modified depending on clinical response and degree of renal impairment; no quantitative recommendations are available.

© 2026 Elsevier