=== Osilodrostat (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5209)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Osilodrostat is an oral cortisol synthesis inhibitor that works by inhibiting steroid 11-beta-hydroxylase (also known as CYP11B1), an enzyme responsible for the final step of cortisol biosynthesis in the adrenal gland.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 60 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): adrenocortical insufficiency, hypoglycemia, hypotension, acne vulgaris, alopecia, edema, hirsutism, hypertension, hypertrichosis, hypokalemia, anxiety, arthralgia, back pain, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, syncope, cough, infection, influenza, pharyngitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Monitor individuals treated with osilodrostat for worsening of pre-existing hypertension and edema.

Brand Names
  - Isturisa

Dosage Forms
  - ISTURISA 1mg Tablet
  - Isturisa 5mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO twice daily, initially. Titrate the dosage by 1 to 2 mg twice daily, no more frequently than every 2 weeks based on the rate of cortisol concentration changes, individual tolerability, and improvement in signs and symptoms. If an individual tolerates 10 mg PO twice daily and continues to have elevated 24-hour urine free cortisol (UFC) concentrations, may titrate further by 5 mg twice daily every 2 weeks. Determine maintenance dosage by cortisol concentrations and the individual's signs and symptoms. The maintenance dose varied between 2 and 7 mg PO twice daily during clinical trials. Max: 30 mg PO twice daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of endogenous hypercortisolemia in individuals with Cushing syndrome for whom surgery is not an option or has not been curative

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    edema, hypertension
    General Information
    Monitor individuals treated with osilodrostat for worsening of pre-existing hypertension and edema. By blocking cortisol synthesis, osilodrostat may increase circulating concentrations of cortisol and aldosterone precursors (11-deoxy cortisol and 11-deoxycorticosterone), which can cause edema and hypertension.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, heart failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use osilodrostat with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Use osilodrostat with caution in individuals with heart failure. Osilodrostat is associated with a dose-dependent QT prolongation (maximum mean estimated QTcF increase of up to 5.3 milliseconds at 30 mg), which may cause cardiac arrhythmias. Perform an ECG to obtain a baseline QTc interval measurement prior to initiating therapy with osilodrostat and monitor for an effect on the QTc interval thereafter. Correct hypokalemia and/or hypomagnesemia prior to treatment initiation and monitor serum electrolytes periodically during treatment. Consider temporary discontinuation of osilodrostat in the case of an increase in QTc interval greater than 480 milliseconds.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available data regarding osilodrostat use during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with active Cushing's Syndrome during pregnancy. When osilodrostat was given to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses that produced maternal exposures of 7 and 0.5-times the 30 mg twice the daily maximum clinical dose by AUC, no adverse developmental outcomes were observed. In rabbits, exposures associated with maternal toxicity at 7-times the maximum clinical dose resulted in decreased fetal viability. No adverse developmental outcomes were observed in a pre-and postnatal development study with the administration of osilodrostat to pregnant rats from organogenesis through lactation at 8-times the 30 mg twice daily maximum clinical dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions (such as adrenal insufficiency) in the breastfed infant, breast-feeding is not recommended during treatment with osilodrostat and should be avoided for 1 week after the final dose. There are no available data on the presence of osilodrostat in human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use osilodrostat with caution in individuals with hepatic failure. More frequent monitoring of adrenal function may be required during dose titration in all individuals with hepatic impairment. Dosage adjustment is not required in individuals with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A) but is required for individuals with moderately impaired hepatic function (Child-Pugh class B) and for individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C).

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available data regarding osilodrostat use during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with active Cushing's Syndrome during pregnancy. When osilodrostat was given to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses that produced maternal exposures of 7 and 0.5-times the 30 mg twice the daily maximum clinical dose by AUC, no adverse developmental outcomes were observed. In rabbits, exposures associated with maternal toxicity at 7-times the maximum clinical dose resulted in decreased fetal viability. No adverse developmental outcomes were observed in a pre-and postnatal development study with the administration of osilodrostat to pregnant rats from organogenesis through lactation at 8-times the 30 mg twice daily maximum clinical dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions (such as adrenal insufficiency) in the breastfed infant, breast-feeding is not recommended during treatment with osilodrostat and should be avoided for 1 week after the final dose. There are no available data on the presence of osilodrostat in human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with osilodrostat may alter dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to dihydromorphine, and by CYP3A; osilodrostat is a dual weak 2D6 and weak 3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If osilodrostat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. If osilodrostat is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If osilodrostat is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and osilodrostat due to the potential for increased osilodrostat exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of osilodrostat by half during coadministration of adagrasib and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. If osilodrostat is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If osilodrostat is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with alfuzosin. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and osilodrostat due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with osilodrostat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with amisulpride. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amitriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of amitriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of amitriptyline. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Amitriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate that may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amoxapine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of amoxapine may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of amoxapine. Amoxapine is a CYP2D6 substrate and osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with osilodrostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Anagrelide: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as osilodrostat. Torsade de pointes and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Apalutamide: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of apalutamide, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with apomorphine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. An aripiprazole dosage reduction is necessary; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, osilodrostat is a weak CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and arsenic trioxide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation; discontinue or select an alternative drug that does not prolong the QT interval prior to starting arsenic trioxide therapy. Monitor ECG frequently if coadministration is required. QT interval prolongation, torsade de pointes, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Monitor ECG for QT prolongation if coadministration is required. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with QT interval prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and asenapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. If osilodrostat is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If osilodrostat is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of atazanavir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of atazanavir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of cobicistat; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of osilodrostat and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when osilodrostat is administered with bedaquiline. Bedaquiline has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Monitor for anemia and hypoxia if concomitant use of osilodrostat with belzutifan is necessary due to increased plasma exposure of belzutifan which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of belzutifan as recommended if anemia or hypoxia occur. Belzutifan is a CYP2C19 substrate and osilodrostat is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if osilodrostat treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Osilodrostat may increase bendamustine exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions (e.g., myelosuppression, infection, hepatotoxicity). Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and osilodrostat is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If osilodrostat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and osilodrostat can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when osilodrostat is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. Additionally, additive QT prolongation can occur. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor ECGs and consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping osilodrostat, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If osilodrostat is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and osilodrostat can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when osilodrostat is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. Additionally, additive QT prolongation can occur. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor ECGs and consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping osilodrostat, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If osilodrostat is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of carbamazepine, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and also induces CYP2B6.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of osilodrostat, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with osilodrostat if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half and periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation; ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that causes concentration-dependent QT prolongation.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of chloramphenicol; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amitriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of amitriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of amitriptyline. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Amitriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate that may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with osilodrostat due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If osilodrostat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with chlorpromazine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of osilodrostat and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with osilodrostat is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Limit the dose of citalopram to 20 mg/day if coadministered with osilodrostat. Concurrent use may increase citalopram exposure increasing the risk of QT prolongation. Citalopram is a sensitive CYP2C19 substrate; osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with osilodrostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clomipramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of clomipramine may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of clomipramine. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Clomipramine is a CYP2D6 substrate that may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministered with osilodrostat; concurrent use may increase clozapine exposure. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. Clozapine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of cobicistat; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy. (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with osilodrostat may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of osilodrostat could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If osilodrostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy. (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with osilodrostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib can cause concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Cyclosporine therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended when administered concurrently with osilodrostat. Use of these medications together may result in elevated cyclosporine serum concentrations, causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Osilodrostat is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of cyclosporine.
Darunavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of darunavir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of cobicistat; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of darunavir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of cobicistat; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of darunavir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with dasatinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with degarelix. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been reported with the use of degarelix. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Desflurane: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with halogenated anesthetics. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in desipramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of desipramine may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of desipramine. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Desipramine is a CYP2D6 substrate that may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Use osilodrostat and deutetrabenazine together with caution and consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Use osilodrostat and quinidine together with caution and consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP.
Disopyramide: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with disopyramide. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and osilodrostat is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with donepezil. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes can occur during donepezil therapy.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with donepezil. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes can occur during donepezil therapy.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in doxepin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of doxepin may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of doxepin. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Doxepin is a CYP2D6 substrate that may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with osilodrostat is contraindicated due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should not be used in combination with any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval, such as osilodrostat. If concomitant use is unavoidable, use extreme caution; initiate droperidol at a low dose and increase the dose as needed to achieve the desired effect. Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with efavirenz as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with efavirenz as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with efavirenz as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and osilodrostat is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate. Because CYP3A4 plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of cobicistat; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of cobicistat; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Encorafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of encorafenib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease osilodrostat exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms after initiation and discontinuation of encorafenib; an adjustment in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by half during coadministration of ensitrelvir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with osilodrostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, monitor ECGs during treatment. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of enzalutamide, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
eriBULin: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with eribulin. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with osilodrostat if possible due to the increased risk of erlotinib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable and severe reactions occur, reduce the dose of erlotinib by 50 mg decrements. Erlotinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2. Osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4/CYP1A2 inhibitor increased erlotinib exposure by 39% and increased the erlotinib Cmax by 17%.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of osilodrostat and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of escitalopram and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and osilodrostat should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. If osilodrostat is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If osilodrostat is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration as concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of fexinidazole, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP2B6 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 inducer.
Fezolinetant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fezolinetant and osilodrostat is contraindicated due to the risk of increased fezolinetant exposure which may increase the risk of fezolinetant-related adverse effects. Fezolinetant is a CYP1A2 substrate; osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased fezolinetant overall exposure by 360%.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or osilodrostat; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with fingolimod as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of osilodrostat and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A4 inhibitors, including osilodrostat, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A4 inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluconazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with fluphenazine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Minor) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with fluvoxamine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes have been reported during fluvoxamine postmarketing use.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of fosamprenavir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and foscarnet due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes have been reported during postmarketing use of foscarnet. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of fosphenytoin, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and also induces CYP2B6.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Use osilodrostat and fostemsavir together with caution and consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with gemifloxacin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and electrolytes if osilodrostat is coadministered with gemtuzumab due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with gilteritinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with osilodrostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with goserelin. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with granisetron. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with halogenated anesthetics. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with haloperidol. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with histrelin. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If osilodrostat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If osilodrostat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If osilodrostat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of osilodrostat and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with ibutilide. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes; proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Idelalisib: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of idelalisib; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and iloperidone due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in imipramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of imipramine may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of imipramine. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Imipramine is a CYP2D6 substrate that may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab with osilodrostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain ECGs and prior to the start of treatment and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Isoflurane: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with halogenated anesthetics. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half and consider more frequent ECG monitoring during coadministration of itraconazole; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with osilodrostat due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and osilodrostat due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of osilodrostat, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of osilodrostat by half. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with osilodrostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with lapatinib. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with osilodrostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with osilodrostat as concurrent use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with osilodrostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with leuprolide. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and osilodrostat due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of osilodrostat, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of osilodrostat by half. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 substrate; osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 substrate; osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 substrate; osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG for QT prolongation and monitor for orthostatic hypotension and bradycardia during concurrent use of lofexidine and osilodrostat. Coadministration may increase lofexidine exposure. Lofexidine is a CYP2D6 substrate that prolongs the QT interval; there are also postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Coadministration with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the lofexidine AUC by 28%.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half (not to exceed 30 mg/day PO) if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and osilodrostat; concurrent use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of osilodrostat by half and reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2; closely monitor patients for adverse reactions from both drugs. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing osilodrostat. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with loperamide. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with loperamide. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with osilodrostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of ritonavir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of lumacaftor; ivacaftor, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of lumacaftor; ivacaftor, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as osilodrostat. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting osilodrostat therapy. Avoid initiation of osilodrostat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable osilodrostat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary as concurrent use may increase mefloquine exposure and mefloquine-related adverse events. Mefloquine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary; these effects may be more pronounced with osilodrostat as it can inhibit multiple CYP enzymes. If osilodrostat is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and CYP2C19; osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with osilodrostat can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and osilodrostat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mexiletine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase mexiletine exposure. Mexiletine is a CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 substrate; osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Midostaurin: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and midostaurin. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of midostaurin, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP2B6 substrate and midostaurin is a strong CYP2B6 inducer. Additionally, monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with midostaurin; both drugs are associated with QT prolongation.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of osilodrostat and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mitotane: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentrations and the patient's signs and symptoms closely. Use of mitotane may decrease osilodrostat exposure via CYP induction. Similar pharmacodynamic actions may increase the risk for adrenal insufficiency. Dosage adjustments may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In addition, mitotane suppresses adrenal activity and may have additive effects with olisodrostat on cortisol levels, but via a different mechanism. Patients should be aware of the symptoms of hypocortisolism and adrenal insufficiency and immediately report if they occur. After discontinuation of mitotane, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with moxifloxacin. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of osilodrostat. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of nefazodone; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of nelfinavir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and osilodrostat; significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. Sudden death and QT prolongation have been reported in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of ritonavir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with osilodrostat due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in nortriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of nortriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of nortriptyline. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Nortriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate that may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with olanzapine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with olanzapine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with olanzapine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of osilodrostat and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat with osimertinib due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor ECG and electrolytes if osilodrostat is coadministered with oxaliplatin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. If osilodrostat is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If osilodrostat is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking osilodrostat due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and paliperidone due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Monitor ECG if coadministration is necessary. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Panobinostat: (Major) Coadministration of osilodrostat and panobinostat is not recommended due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Panobinostat can cause QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with osilodrostat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase paroxetine exposure. Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor increased paroxetine overall exposure by 50%.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of osilodrostat and pazopanib is not recommended due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Monitor the ECG for QT prolongation if coadministration is required. Pazopanib is associated with QT interval prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Pentamidine: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with pentamidine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Systemic pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with perphenazine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amitriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of amitriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of amitriptyline. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Amitriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate that may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. (Minor) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with perphenazine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and phenobarbital. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of phenobarbital, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and also induces CYP2B6.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and phenobarbital. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of phenobarbital, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and also induces CYP2B6.
Phenytoin: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of phenytoin, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and also induces CYP2B6.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and pimavanserin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of pimozide with osilodrostat is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Pirfenidone: (Major) Reduce the dose of pirfenidone to 534 mg three times daily (1,602 mg/day) if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pirfenidone exposure. Pirfenidone is a CYP1A2 substrate and osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased pirfenidone exposure by 81%.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with osilodrostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor ECGs. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking osilodrostat due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Posaconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half and consider more frequent ECG monitoring during coadministration of posaconazole; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation; posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Primidone: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and primidone. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of primidone, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and also induces CYP2B6.
Procainamide: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with procainamide. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with prochlorperazine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of propafenone and osilodrostat. Concurrent use may increase plasma concentrations of propafenone, which may lead to cardiac arrhythmias and exaggerated beta-blocking activity; additive QT prolongation may also occur. Propafenone is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate which increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propranolol adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration of osilodrostat as concurrent use may increase propranolol exposure. Propranolol is a CYP1A2 substrate and osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in protriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of protriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of protriptyline. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Protriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate that may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Use osilodrostat and quinidine together with caution and consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of quinine with osilodrostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP). Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ramelteon-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Ramelteon is a CYP1A2 substrate and osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with ranolazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Rasagiline: (Major) Do not exceed a rasagiline dose of 0.5 mg once daily when coadministered with osilodrostat. Coadministration may result in increased rasagiline concentrations. Rasagiline is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. When rasagiline was administered with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor, the AUC of rasagiline increased by 83%.
Relacorilant: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by half during coadministration of relacorilant; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Use osilodrostat and relugolix together with caution and consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Use osilodrostat and relugolix together with caution and consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with osilodrostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with osilodrostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
rifAMPin: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of rifampin, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 and strong CYP2B6 inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of rifapentine, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with risperidone. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting.
Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of ritonavir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and electrolytes if triclabendazole is coadministered with romidepsin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and saquinavir boosted with ritonavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Monitor ECG at baseline and during therapy if coadministration cannot be avoided. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with osilodrostat is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sertraline and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with halogenated anesthetics. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving osilodrostat due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of osilodrostat. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with solifenacin. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with osilodrostat due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Sorafenib is also associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and St. John's Wort. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of St. John's Wort, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and also induces CYP2B6.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if osilodrostat must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. If osilodrostat is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like osilodrostat can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If osilodrostat is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with sunitinib. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Consider ECG and electrolyte monitoring periodically during treatment if tacrolimus is administered with osilodrostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Additionally, monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate that may prolong the QT interval and cause torsade de pointes (TdP). Osilodrostat is is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat with tetrabenazine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Monitor theophylline concentrations and watch for an increase in theophylline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a theophylline dose reduction may be necessary. Theophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of thioridazine with osilodrostat is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
tiZANidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and osilodrostat as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with tolterodine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of osilodrostat, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of osilodrostat, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with osilodrostat and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Triclabendazole exposure may also be increased, further elevating the risk of QT-related cardiac events. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate, osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with trifluoperazine. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in trimipramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary; a dose reduction of trimipramine may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase exposure of trimipramine. Additionally, consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Trimipramine is a CYP2D6 substrate that may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Osilodrostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with triptorelin. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tucatinib: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half during coadministration of tucatinib; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with osilodrostat. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with osilodrostat due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; torsade de pointes and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with vemurafenib. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider interventions to minimize the risk of progression to torsades de pointes (TdP), such as ECG monitoring and correcting electrolyte abnormalities, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with osilodrostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and osilodrostat due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by one-half and consider more frequent ECG monitoring during coadministration of voriconazole; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate that is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation; voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with vorinostat. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with osilodrostat is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat with ziprasidone due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes in patients with multiple confounding factors. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    adrenocortical insufficiency, hypoglycemia, hypotension
    General Information
    Osilodrostat lowers cortisol levels and can lead to hypocortisolism and sometimes life-threatening adrenocortical insufficiency. Hypocortisolism can occur at any time during osilodrostat treatment. Hypocortisolism was reported at a rate of 31% up to 12 weeks of treatment, and 18% from Weeks 12 to 26 during clinical trials. The majority of cases were manageable by reducing the dose of osilodrostat and/or adding low-dose, short-term glucocorticoid therapy. In the clinical study with osilodrostat, adrenocortical insufficiency was reported in 43.1% of individuals, and included individuals with the following: glucocorticoid deficiency, acute adrenocortical insufficiency, steroid withdrawal syndrome, decreased urine free cortisol (UFC), and decreased cortisol concentrations. One-third of the subjects had low cortisol levels indicative of adrenal insufficiency. The majority of subjects had normal cortisol levels suggesting a cortisol withdrawal syndrome. Increased blood corticotropin was reported in 13.9% of individuals. A significant lowering of serum cortisol may result in hypotension, electrolyte imbalance, and hypoglycemia. Hypotension was reported in 11.7% of individuals receiving osilodrostat. Evaluate individuals for precipitating causes of hypocortisolism (infection, physical stress, etc.). Monitor 24-hour urine free cortisol (UFC), serum or plasma cortisol, and the patient's signs and symptoms periodically during osilodrostat treatment. Decrease or temporarily discontinue osilodrostat if UFC levels fall below the target range, there is a rapid decrease in cortisol levels, and/or individuals report symptoms of hypocortisolism. Stop osilodrostat and administer exogenous glucocorticoid replacement therapy if serum or plasma cortisol levels are below target range and individuals have symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. Re-initiate osilodrostat at a lower dose when the UFC and serum or plasma cortisol levels are within the target range, and/or patient symptoms have resolved. In individuals with moderate to severe renal impairment, 24-hour urinary free cortisol (UFC) concentrations should be interpreted with caution due to reduced urine free cortisol excretion. After osilodrostat discontinuation, cortisol suppression may persist beyond the 4-hour half-life of osilodrostat. Educate individuals on the symptoms associated with hypocortisolism and advise them to contact a healthcare provider if they occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      adrenocortical insufficiency
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, alopecia, edema, hirsutism, hypertension, hypertrichosis, hypokalemia
    General Information
    Osilodrostat inhibits CYP11B1 and this action is associated with increased adrenal hormone precursors such as steroid precursor accumulation and increased testosterone levels. The incidence of adverse reactions potentially related to the accumulation of adrenal hormone precursors was 42%. Hypertension (10.2% to 14%) and hypokalemia (12.4% to 17%) were the most common adrenal hormone precursor-related adverse reactions. Edema (7% to 21.2%) and elevated blood pressure (15%) were also reported. All cases of hypokalemia responded to treatment with potassium supplementation and/or mineralocorticoid antagonist therapy (e.g., spironolactone). One patient discontinued the study because of hypokalemia. Hypokalemia can occur at any time during treatment. Correct pre-existing hypokalemia before osilodrostat treatment begins. Monitor patients treated with osilodrostat for hypokalemia, worsening of hypertension, and edema. Osilodrostat-induced hypokalemia should be treated with intravenous or oral potassium supplementation based on event severity. If hypokalemia persists in spite of potassium supplementation, consider adding mineralocorticoid antagonists. Osilodrostat dose reduction or discontinuation may be necessary for persistent hypokalemia. In male patients treated with osilodrostat, testosterone levels generally increased but remained within normal limits; all male patients were asymptomatic with no values above the upper limit of normal (ULN) at last measured value. In female patients, mean testosterone levels increased above the female ULN from baseline and reversed when treatment was interrupted. The testosterone increase was associated with mild to moderate cases of hirsutism (12%) or acne vulgaris (11%) in a subset of female patients. In all patients, the accumulation of androgens may lead to increased hair growth (hypertrichosis). In the clinical study with osilodrostat, hirsutism (9.5%), acne vulgaris (8.8%,) abnormal hormone level (11.7%), increased blood testosterone (10.9%), and alopecia (5.8%) were reported. Inform patients of the symptoms associated with hyperandrogenism and advise them to contact a healthcare provider if they occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hirsutism
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertrichosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Adverse reactions of QT prolongation and clinically relevant ECG findings have been reported with osilodrostat. In the clinical study with osilodrostat, sinus tachycardia (6.6%) and electrocardiogram QT prolongation (3.6%) were reported. Osilodrostat is associated with a dose-dependent QT prolongation (maximum mean estimated QTcF increase of up to 5.3 ms at a 30 mg dose), which may cause cardiac arrhythmias. Five (4%) patients had an event of QT prolongation, 3 (2%) patients had a QTcF increase of more than 60ms from baseline, and 18 (13%) had a new QTcF value of more than 450 ms. Perform an ECG to obtain a baseline QTc interval measurement prior to initiating therapy with osilodrostat and monitor for an effect on the QTc interval after that. Correct hypokalemia and/or hypomagnesemia prior to osilodrostat initiation and monitor these electrolytes periodically during treatment with osilodrostat. Correct electrolyte abnormalities if indicated. Consider temporary discontinuation of osilodrostat in the case of an increase in QTc interval greater than 480 ms.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal side effects have been reported with osilodrostat. Lowering of cortisol concentrations can cause nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and loss of appetite. Be aware of the symptoms of hypocortisolism when such reactions occur. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain were reported in 69% of patients. In many cases, the episodes were of short duration (1 to 2 days) and the severity was mild to moderate. In the clinical study with osilodrostat, nausea (37.2%), vomiting (19%), diarrhea (14.6%), abdominal pain (13.1%), decreased appetite (11.7%), dyspepsia (8%), and gastroenteritis (7.3%) were reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anxiety, arthralgia, back pain, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, syncope
    General Information
    Lowering of cortisol by osilodrostat may cause fatigue (38.7%) and dizziness (13.9%). In the clinical study with osilodrostat, headache (30.7%), arthralgia (17.5%), back pain (15.3%), myalgia (12.4%), insomnia (8%), malaise (6.6%), syncope (1.5%), anxiety (7.3%), and depression (7.3%) were also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, infection, influenza, pharyngitis
    General Information
    Infectious-related adverse reactions have been reported with osilodrostat, including naso-pharyngitis (19.7%), urinary tract infection (11.7%), pyrexia (10.9%), cough (10.2%), and influenza (10.2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash
    General Information
    During clinical trials, rash (unspecified) was reported in 15.3% of patients receiving osilodrostat.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes in patients treated with osilodrostat were infrequent, typically mild, and reversed spontaneously or following dose adjustment. Most abnormal liver parameters occurred during the dose-titration period and no patients discontinued osilodrostat due to abnormal liver chemistry parameters. Elevated hepatic enzymes (transaminases) were reported in 4.4% of patients receiving osilodrostat. Five (4%) patients had an ALT or AST of more than 3-times the upper level of normal (ULN) during the 48-week clinical study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, neutropenia
    General Information
    Anemia (10.2%) and neutropenia were reported in patients receiving osilodrostat. Of the 137 patients from the 48-week study, 18 patients had at least 1 measured absolute neutrophil count (ANC) below the normal limit, and 2 of these patients (1.45%) had an adverse reaction of neutropenia. No concomitant infections and/or fever were reported in patients with a decreased ANC.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Osilodrostat is an oral cortisol synthesis inhibitor that works by inhibiting steroid 11-beta-hydroxylase (also known as CYP11B1), an enzyme responsible for the final step of cortisol biosynthesis in the adrenal gland. Osilodrostat is used to treat endogenous hypercortisolemia in individuals with Cushing syndrome for whom surgery is not an option or has not been curative. Osilodrostat is a preferred medication in individuals with mild disease and no visible tumor on MRI. Guidelines also strongly recommend osilodrostat in people with severe disease who require rapid normalization of cortisol as response is typically seen within hours. Treatment with osilodrostat achieves high rates of cortisol normalization and also improves the clinical features of Cushing syndrome, such as blood pressure, glucose metabolism, body weight, and cholesterol concentrations. Osilodrostat was studied in 137 adult subjects (the majority of whom either had undergone pituitary surgery that did not cure Cushing syndrome or were not surgical candidates); at the end of the single-arm, open-label 24-week period, about half of subjects had cortisol concentrations within normal limits. After this point, 71 individuals who were taking stable doses and had tolerated the drug for the last 12 weeks entered an 8-week, double-blind, randomized withdrawal study; at the end of this withdrawal period, 86% of subjects receiving osilodrostat had maintained cortisol concentrations within normal limits compared to 30% of subjects taking the placebo. The most serious side effect of the drug is adrenal insufficiency. Hypocortisolism, QTc interval prolongation, and elevations in adrenal hormone precursors may also occur in individuals taking osilodrostat. Osilodrostat was FDA-approved in 2020.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Osilodrostat is a cortisol synthesis inhibitor. It inhibits steroid 11-beta-hydroxylase (also known as CYP11B1), the enzyme responsible for the final step of cortisol biosynthesis in the adrenal gland. In a Chinese hamster lung cell line V79-4 that overexpresses human CYP11B1, adrenodoxin, and adrenodoxin reductase, the use of osilodrostat inhibited the activity of human CYP11B1 dose-dependently with IC50 values of 2.5 +/- 0.1 nM (n = 4). In humans, a reduction in serum or plasma cortisol concentrations and the 24-hour urine free cortisol (UFC) concentration is expected during the use of the drug. During clinical studies in humans, a dose-dependent increase was observed in 11-deoxycortisol, the cortisol precursor, and ACTH levels in patients with Cushing's disease.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Osilodrostat is absorbed orally with a time of maximum observed concentration (Tmax) of approximately 1 hour. Osilodrostat exposure [AUC and maximal concentration (Cmax)] slightly increase over dose-proportionally within the therapeutic dose range of 1 mg to 30 mg. In a healthy volunteer study (n = 20), subjects administered a single, 30 mg oral dose of osilodrostat film-coated tablets with a high-fat meal resulted in a reduction of AUC by 11% and Cmax by 21%, respectively. The median Tmax was delayed from 1 to 2.5 hours. These changes are not considered to be clinically significant, and osilodrostat can be administered with or without food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Moderate or severe hepatic impairment can influence osilodrostat pharmacokinetics. There was a trend of increased exposure (AUC) to osilodrostat in moderate and severe hepatic impaired subjects (geo-mean ratios are 1.44 and 2.66, respectively) as compared to normal subjects. Exposures (Cmax and AUC) of osilodrostat in the mild hepatic impairment group were similar to those in the normal group.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Osilodrostat exposure was similar in the three renal function groups [normal, severe, and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) groups] and thus a study was not conducted in mild and moderate renal impairment groups. The results showed that the pharmacokinetics of osilodrostat was not influenced by varying degrees of renal impairment to any clinically significant extent.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age has no significant impact on osilodrostat exposure in adults. Of the 167 patients in clinical trials with osilodrostat, 10 (6%) were 65 years and older. There were no patients above 75 years of age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender has no significant impact on osilodrostat exposure in adults.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The relative bioavailability of osilodrostat in Asian patients is approximately 20% higher compared to that of non-Asian, along with higher Tmax and Cmax, compared to other ethnicities. However, the difference is not clinically significant.
  Text
  Osilodrostat is administered orally. The median apparent volume of distribution of osilodrostat is approximately 100 L. Protein binding is low (36.4%). The osilodrostat blood-to-plasma concentration ratio is 0.85. Multiple CYP450 isoenzymes (i.e., CYP3A4, CYP2B6, and CYP2D6) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) contribute to osilodrostat metabolism and no single enzyme contributes greater than 25% to the total clearance. The metabolites are not expected to contribute to the pharmacological effect of osilodrostat. The elimination half-life of osilodrostat is approximately 4 hours. The majority of the radioactivity dose of osilodrostat is eliminated in the urine (mean: 90.6% of the administered dose) with only a minor amount eliminated in the feces (1.58% of the dose). The low percentage of the dose eliminated in the urine as unchanged osilodrostat (5.2%) indicates that metabolism is the major clearance pathway in humans.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2D6, CYP1A2, CYP2C19, UGT
Multiple CYP450 enzymes (i.e., CYP3A4, CYP2B6, and CYP2D6) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferases contribute to osilodrostat metabolism and no single enzyme contributes greater than 25% to the total clearance. Concomitant use of osilodrostat with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor may cause an increase in osilodrostat concentration and may increase the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions; the dose of osilodrostat should be reduced by half with concomitant use of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use of osilodrostat with strong CYP3A4 and/or CYP2B6 inducers may cause a decrease in osilodrostat concentration and may reduce the efficacy of osilodrostat. Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 and/or CYP2B6 inducers while using osilodrostat may cause an increase in osilodrostat concentration and may increase the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. During concomitant use of osilodrostat with strong CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 inducers, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; an increase in osilodrostat dosage may be needed. Upon discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 inducers during osilodrostat treatment, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dosage may be needed. In a healthy volunteer study, osilodrostat showed a potential to inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4/5. Osilodrostat should be used with caution when coadministered with CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer tablets with or without food.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, skip it. Administer the next dose at the regularly scheduled time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    60 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    60 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  More frequent monitoring of adrenal function may be required during dose titration in all patients with hepatic impairment.
Mild impairment (Child-Pugh A): No initial dosage adjustment is needed.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B): Reduce initial dose to 1 mg PO twice daily.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Reduce initial dose to 1 mg PO once daily in the evening.
  Renal Impairment
  No dose adjustment is required for patients with renal impairment. Use caution in interpreting urine free cortisol levels in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment, due to reduced urine free cortisol excretion.
