=== Alemtuzumab — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2408)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against the CD52 antigen.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Campath): Single doses greater than 30 mg IV or cumulative weekly doses greater than 90 mg IV are not recommended.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): candidiasis, cervical dysplasia, infection, influenza, pharyngitis, bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis, wheezing, dysgeusia, dizziness, dysesthesia, headache, paresthesias, tremor, anxiety, depression, insomnia, suicidal ideation, arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, myasthenia gravis, still disease

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alemtuzumab is produced in mammalian cell (Chinese hamster ovary) suspension culture in a nutrient medium containing neomycin, but neomycin is not detectable in the final products. Emetic risk: Moderate

ALEMTUZUMAB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Campath, LEMTRADA

Indication Specific Dosing

Before initiation of treatment:
In patients with multiple sclerosis, complete any necessary immunizations at least 6 weeks prior to starting alemtuzumab treatment. Determine if these patients have a history of varicella or have been vaccinated for varicella zoster virus (VZV); if not, test for antibodies to VZV and consider vaccination for those who are antibody-negative.
Perform tuberculosis screening according to local guidelines prior to initiation of alemtuzumab for multiple sclerosis. For individuals that test positive in tuberculosis screening, treat by standard medical practice prior to initiating therapy with alemtuzumab.


For the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) (B-cell)

For the treatment of previously untreated CLL as a single agent
Intravenous dosage
Adults


Initially, 3 mg IV over 2 hours once daily. Withhold alemtuzumab for grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions. When the 3 mg dose is tolerated (infusion reactions are grade 2 or less), escalate the daily dose to 10 mg IV once daily and continue until infusion reactions are grade 2 or less, then start the maintenance dose of 30 mg IV given 3 times weekly on alternate days (i.e., Monday, Wednesday, Friday); the total therapy duration including dose escalation is 12 weeks. In most patients, the dose escalation to 30 mg can be done in 3—7 days. Gradual dose escalation to the maintenance dosage is required at treatment initiation and after therapy interruption for 7 or more days; start at a dose of 3 mg. Single doses > 30 mg or cumulative weekly doses of > 90 mg should not be given because of an increased incidence of pancytopenia. Adjust dose based on hematologic toxicity (see Dosage Adjustments). Withhold alemtuzumab during serious infection or other serious adverse reactions until resolution. In a phase III trial, 297 patients with previously untreated CLL with progressive disease that required therapy were randomized to receive alemtuzumab or chlorambucil. Progression-free survival (14.6 months vs. 11.7 months, p < 0.0001) and the overall response rate (83% vs. 55%, p < 0.0001) were significantly better in the alemtuzumab arm. In addition, a complete response was achieved by 24% of patients in the alemtuzumab arm compared to 2% of patients in the chlorambucil arm (p < 0.0001).


Subcutaneous dosage†
Adults


Initially, 3 mg subcutaneously on day 1. If tolerated, escalate the dose to 10 mg subcutaneously on day 3 and then to the target dose of 30 mg subcutaneously on day 5. In the event of local skin erythema or edema, escalate the dose over a period of 1 to 2 weeks. Administer the maintenance dose of 30 mg subcutaneously 3 times weekly on alternate days (i.e., Monday, Wednesday, Friday) for a maximum of 18 weeks. In clinical trials, treatment was held in patients achieving a complete remission or developing progressive disease. If treatment was interrupted for more than 7 days, the dose was reinitiated at 3 or 10 mg. Dosage adjustments may be necessary based on hematologic toxicity, although not specified in clinical trials. Alemtuzumab therapy may need to be suspended during serious adverse reactions until resolution. In a phase II trial, 38 patients with previously untreated CLL received alemtuzumab subcutaneously matched to 75 historical control patients. The overall response rate in the alemtuzumab arm was 87% compared to a 56% response rate among historical controls. All patients received allopurinol (300 mg/day) for the first 4 weeks; cotrimoxazole, valacyclovir, and fluconazole were given during alemtuzumab treatment and for 8 weeks after completion.


For the treatment of previously treated CLL as a single agent
Intravenous dosage
Adults


Initially, 3 mg IV over 2 hours once daily. Withhold alemtuzumab for grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions. When the 3 mg dose is tolerated (infusion reactions are grade 2 or less), escalate the daily dose to 10 mg IV once daily and continue until infusion reactions are grade 2 or less, then start the maintenance dose of 30 mg IV given 3 times weekly on alternate days (i.e., Monday, Wednesday, Friday); the total therapy duration including dose escalation is 12 weeks. In most patients, the dose escalation to 30 mg can be done in 3—7 days. Gradual dose escalation to the maintenance dosage is required at treatment initiation and after therapy interruption for 7 or more days; start at a dose of 3 mg. Single doses > 30 mg or cumulative weekly doses of > 90 mg should not be given because of an increased incidence of pancytopenia. Adjust dose based on hematologic toxicity (see Dosage Adjustments). Withhold alemtuzumab during serious infection or other serious adverse reactions until resolution. In 3 open-label single-arm studies of 149 CLL patients who had previously received chemotherapy, complete response rates of 0—2% and partial response rates of 21—31% were observed with alemtuzumab.


Subcutaneous dosage†
Adults


Multiple dosage regimens have been studied. In a clinical trial of 103 patients with fludarabine-refractory CLL, 57 patients received alemtuzumab subcutaneously. Patients received a dose escalation of alemtuzumab 3 mg subcutaneously on day 1, then 10 mg subcutaneously on day 2, and then the target dose of 30 mg subcutaneously on day 3. Patients then received alemtuzumab 30 mg subcutaneously 3 times weekly (i.e., Monday, Wednesday, Friday) for a minimum of 4 weeks up to a maximum of 12 weeks. In patients receiving alemtuzumab subcutaneously, the overall response rate was 34% and overall survival was 19.1 months. Another clinical trial in 49 patients with refractory CLL studied low-dose alemtuzumab. Patients received alemtuzumab 3 mg subcutaneously on day 1, then 10 mg subcutaneously on day 3. Alemtuzumab 10 mg subcutaneously was then given 3 times weekly for a maximum of 18 weeks (maximum cumulative dose: 544 mg). The overall response rate was 53%, including a 60% response rate in patients with the unfavorable 17p deletion.


For the treatment of relapsed or refractory CLL in combination with rituximab†
Intravenous dosage
Adults


Multiple regimens have been studied. In a phase II trial, 48 patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoid malignancies (32 patients with CLL) were given alemtuzumab in combination with rituximab. Alemtuzumab was dose escalated over 3 consecutive days in week 1 (3 mg IV over 2 hours on day 1, 10 mg IV on day 2, 30 mg IV on day 3, and withheld for grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions), then administered at 30 mg IV on days 3 and 5 of weeks 2—4. Rituximab 375 mg/m2 IV was given weekly on day 1 for 4 consecutive weeks (first dose divided as 100 mg/m2 IV on day 1, then 275 mg/m2 IV on day 2 in patients with WBC count > 50,000 cells/mm3. Patients could receive a second 4-week cycle depending on response and toxicities. All patients received prophylactic trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and valacyclovir during treatment and for 2 months after completion. Combination therapy provided an overall response rate of 63% in patients with CLL. In another clinical trial, 40 patients with previously treated CLL received continuous IV infusion alemtuzumab (15 mg/day IV over 24 hours on days 2—7), followed by subcutaneous alemtuzumab (30 mg subcutaneously on days 3 and 5 in weeks 2—4), in combination with rituximab (375 mg/m2 IV on day 1 of week 1, then 500 mg/m2 IV on day 1 of weeks 2—4). The primary endpoint, overall response rate, was 53% (CR 18%, nodular PR 10%, PR 25%), and the median time-to-treatment failure was 6 months. The median overall survival in patients with a major response (CR or nodular PR) was 62 months compared to 28 months in patients with a PR or no response (p = 0.01).


For the treatment of T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL)†

Intravenous infusion
Adults


30 mg IV 3 times per week has been studied; alemtuzumab was usually titrated up to a 30 mg dose (3 mg, 10 mg, and 30 mg on 3 consecutive days). In a phase II study of 18 patients, alemtuzumab for up to 12 weeks led to a complete response in 8 patients and a partial response in 2 patients; 5 patients still had a complete response at 9 months, 10 months, 11 months, 12 months, and 15 months. Patients had advanced or refractory disease; most had received multiple previous therapies (median of 3), and the median time from diagnosis was 7 years. In another trial of 38 patients, most of whom had been treated with other agents, 23 had a complete response and 6 had a partial response to alemtuzumab. If tolerated, the alemtuzumab dose was titrated to 30 mg IV 3 times weekly, although some patients who failed to respond to a 30 mg dose got daily alemtuzumab, and 5 patients got an 80 mg dose; a response was induced in 2 patients. The median dose received was 508 mg (range, 50—1325 mg) over a median of 35 days (range, 2—82 days). The median time from alemtuzumab discontinuation to relapse was 7 months (range, 4—45 months). In a retrospective analysis of 76 patients with T-PLL (72 previously treated, 4 treatment naive), alemtuzumab produced a 51% objective response rate. The median time to progression was 4.5 months and the median overall survival was 7.5 months.


For the treatment of relapsed or refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL)†, including mycosis fungoides† and Sezary syndrome†

Intravenous infusion
Adults


30 mg IV 3 times weekly has been studied. Of 50 patients with advanced, low-grade NHL who had relapsed after chemotherapy or were resistant to chemotherapy, 2 had a complete remission and 8 had a partial remission with alemtuzumab 30 mg IV 3 times weekly for up to 12 weeks. Both patients with a complete remission and 2 of the 8 patients with a partial remission had mycosis fungoides. In another trial, 30 mg IV 3 times weekly for up to 12 weeks in 22 patients with advanced mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome led to a complete response in 7 and a partial response in 5 patients. Of note, 8 of 10 patients who had received 1—2 previous regimens had either a complete or partial response whereas only 4 of 12 patients who had received 3 or more prior regimens had the outcome. In a trial of 19 heavily pretreated patients with erythrodermic MF/SS, alemtuzumab (3 mg IV day 1, 10 mg IV day 3, 30 mg IV day 5; week 1) 30 mg IV 3 times weekly for 12 weeks produced an objective response rate of 84% (CR 47%, PR 37%). The median overall survival was 41 months.


For the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, including relapsing-remitting disease and active secondary progressive disease

Intravenous dosage
Adults


12 mg IV once daily for 5 days, followed by 12 mg IV once daily for 3 days 12 months later. Subsequent treatment courses of 12 mg IV once daily for 3 days may be given as needed at least 12 months after the last dose of any prior treatment course. Because of its safety profile, generally reserve alemtuzumab for persons who have had an inadequate response to 2 or more drugs indicated for the treatment of multiple sclerosis.


For the treatment of graft-versus-host disase (GVHD)†

For the treatment of acute GVHD†
Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


10 mg subcutaneously once daily for 5 days. Guidelines suggest alemtuzumab as a third-line treatment option for steroid-refractory acute GVHD.


Children and Adolescents


10 mg subcutaneously once daily for 5 days. Guidelines suggest alemtuzumab as a third-line treatment option for steroid-refractory acute GVHD.


Intravenous dosage
Adults


10 mg IV once weekly until symptoms resolve if tolerated. Guidelines suggest alemtuzumab as a third-line treatment option for steroid-refractory acute GVHD.


For the treatment of chronic GVHD†
Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


10 mg subcutaneously once daily for 3 days, followed by rituximab.


Intravenous dosage
Adults


3 mg IV 3 times weekly (on days 1, 3, and 5) for 1 week, then 10 mg IV once weekly (on days 8, 15, and 22) for 3 weeks.


For the treatment of refractory aplastic anemia†

Intravenous dosage
Adults


10 mg IV once daily for 10 days.


Children and Adolescents 3 to 17 years


0.2 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 mg/dose) IV once daily for 10 days.


Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


10 mg subcutaneously on Day 1, then 30 mg subcutaneously once daily on Days 2 to 4.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alemtuzumab is produced in mammalian cell (Chinese hamster ovary) suspension culture in a nutrient medium containing neomycin, but neomycin is not detectable in the final products. Use with caution in patients with known hamster protein hypersensitivity.

General Information

In patients with multiple sclerosis, complete any necessary immunizations at least 6 weeks prior to starting alemtuzumab treatment. Determine if these patients have a history of varicella or have been vaccinated for varicella zoster virus (VZV); if not, test for antibodies to VZV and consider vaccination for those who are antibody-negative. Do not administer live viral vaccines following a course of alemtuzumab, as patients will have altered immunity and may be at increased risk of infection following administration of live viral vaccines. Vaccination with live virus vaccines is also not recommended in cancer patients who have recently received alemtuzumab therapy.

infection


In individuals with multiple sclerosis (MS), alemtuzumab is contraindicated during an active infection. Alemtuzumab for MS (i.e., Lemtrada)is also contraindicated in individuals with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection as prolonged reductions of CD4+ lymphocyte counts occur with alemtuzumab therapy. Alemtuzumab treatment for any indication increases the risk for serious infection, including opportunistic infections (e.g., bacterial, protozoan, viral, and fungal infection) or reactivation of latent infections. Administer prophylaxis against Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP) and herpes virus infections in patients receiving alemtuzumab for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Prophylactic antimicrobials are recommended upon the initiation of therapy and for a minimum of 2 months after the last dose of alemtuzumab or until the CD4 counts are 200 cells/microL or more, whichever occurs later. The prophylactic regimens used during CLL clinical trials were sulfamethoxazole; trimethoprim DS twice daily 3 times per week and famciclovir 250 mg twice daily (or equivalent). The median time to recovery of CD4 counts to 200 cells/microL or more was 2 months; however, full recovery (to baseline) of CD4 and CD8 counts may take more than 12 months. Individuals with a history of varicella, other herpes infection (e.g., herpes simplex), or other viral infection are at risk for reactivation of prior infections when treated with alemtuzumab. Consider screening patients with MS at high risk of hepatitis B infection and/or hepatitis C infection before the initiation of alemtuzumab. Use caution in individuals who are carriers of the hepatitis B virus and/or the hepatitis C virus as these patients may be at risk for irreversible liver damage due to reactivation as a consequence of their pre-existing status. Herpes prophylaxis is recommended beginning on the first day of each treatment course and continuing for a minimum of 2 months following treatment or until the CD4 count is 200 cells/microL or more, whichever occurs later. Before alemtuzumab use in MS patients, screen for tuberculosis according to local guidelines, and treat any patients with positive screens before the start of alemtuzumab therapy. Cervical human papillomavirus (HPV) infection has also been reported; annual HPV screening for female patients is recommended. Monitor individuals with CLL for signs and symptoms of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection; hold alemtuzumab therapy for EPV reactivation or severe infection. In CLL patients, withhold alemtuzumab for serious infections and during antiviral treatment for CMV infection or confirmed CMV viremia, which is defined as polymerase chain reaction positive CMV in at least 2 consecutive samples obtained 1 week apart. Additionally, initiate precautions against Listeria infection before alemtuzumab treatment; the incubation period for Listeria monocytogenes ranges from 3 to 70 days. In most cases, symptoms of invasive listeriosis appear within 1 month of exposure. Advise all patients to avoid or adequately heat foods that are potential sources of Listeria monocytogenes (e.g., deli meat, dairy products made with unpasteurized milk, soft cheeses, or undercooked meat, seafood, or poultry), to watch for symptoms of Listeria infection, and to seek prompt medical attention if symptoms do occur. Initiate these Listeria precautions before starting alemtuzumab treatment. Symptoms of Listeria infection include fever, chills, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, headache, joint and muscle pains, neck stiffness, difficulty walking, mental status changes, coma, and other neurological changes.


autoimmune disease, bone marrow suppression, immunosuppression


Use alemtuzumab with caution in individuals with immunosuppression or when used concomitantly with antineoplastic or immunosuppresive therapies, as these combinations could further increase immunosuppression. When alemtuzumab is used for multiple sclerosis (i.e., Lemtrada), the medication is contraindicated in individuals with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection as prolonged reductions of CD4+ lymphocyte counts occur with alemtuzumab therapy. In patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), monitor CD4+ counts for a minimum of 2 months following therapy or until CD4+ counts are 200 cells/microliter or more; dosage reduction or discontinuation may be required. Close monitoring of hematologic parameters is recommended during alemtuzumab treatment because of moderate-to-severe bone marrow suppression, anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. Serious and, in rare cases, fatal pancytopenia/marrow hypoplasia, aplastic anemia, and autoimmune disease [e.g., immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), hemolytic anemia, anti-glomerular basement membrane disease, membranous glomerulonephritis, and autoimmune thyroid disease such as Graves' disease, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, autoimmune thyroiditis, goiter, and autoimmune hepatitis requiring liver transplant] have occurred during alemtuzumab therapy. Alemtuzumab may increase the risk of other autoimmune conditions because of the broad range of autoantibody formation. In individuals with multiple sclerosis, measure the urine protein to creatinine ratio prior to initiation of treatment. Monitor complete blood counts with differential, serum creatinine levels, and urinalysis with urine cell counts before starting treatment and then at monthly intervals until 48 months after the last dose to allow for early detection and treatment of autoimmune adverse reactions. Obtain ALT, AST, and total bilirubin levels prior to start of therapy and at periodic intervals until 48 months after the last dose. Obtain thyroid function tests prior to initiation and every 3 months until 48 months after the last dose. Continue to monitor thyroid function tests after 48 months if clinically indicated or in the case of pregnancy. In patients with CLL, monitor CBC at weekly intervals during therapy and more frequently if worsening anemia, neutropenia, or thrombocytopenia occurs. Withhold medication for severe cytopenias (except lymphopenia). Discontinue for autoimmune cytopenias or recurrent/persistent severe cytopenias (except lymphopenia). Do not exceed recommended dosages; dosages greater than 30 mg/dose or more than 90 mg/week were associated with a higher incidence of pancytopenia in CLL patients. Because of the potential for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in severely lymphopenic patients, it is recommended to irradiate any blood products administered before the patient has recovered from lymphopenia. Prompt medical intervention is indicated if a cytopenia is confirmed. 


stroke


Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of stroke or arterial dissection within the head and neck during treatment with alemtuzumab. Rare, but serious and life-threatening cases of hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke and tears in the lining of arteries of the head and neck (arterial dissection) have been observed in patients with multiple sclerosis, most often within 1 day of receiving treatment, although cases have also been reported to occur a few (3) days after treatment. Although individual risk factors were fully assessed in all cases, the occurrence of these events within 1 day of administration suggests an association with alemtuzumab administration. The etiology of these adverse events is unclear; however, incidents occurred during the same time frame as cytokine release syndrome, a known systemic inflammatory response syndrome that can occur after alemtuzumab administration. Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience symptoms of an ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke or cervicocephalic arterial dissection. The diagnosis is often complicated because early symptoms such as a headache and neck pain are not specific.


cardiac disease, infusion-related reactions, pulmonary disease, respiratory insufficiency


Alemtuzumab requires a specialized care setting that has on-site access to equipment and personnel trained to manage potentially serious infusion-related reactions. To prevent potentially fatal infusion-related reactions in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), alemtuzumab should be started at a low dose with gradual dose escalation to the effective dose and premedication with acetaminophen and diphenhydramine should be given. Individuals with multiple sclerosis (MS) should be premedicated with high dose corticosteroids (i.e., methylprednisolone 1,000 mg or equivalent) immediately prior to infusion for the first 3 days of each treatment course; concomitant use of antihistamines and/or antipyretics may be considered. Obtain a baseline ECG before infusion in all MS patients. Carefully monitor vital signs before, during, and for 2 hours after infusions in all patients, especially those with cardiac disease or pulmonary disease with respiratory insufficiency that predispose them to cardiovascular or pulmonary compromise. Careful monitoring of blood pressure for hypotension and for hypotensive symptoms is recommended, especially in individuals with ischemic cardiac disease (i.e., coronary artery disease, angina) and in patients receiving antihypertensive therapy. Physicians should alert individuals that an infusion reaction could occur within 48 hours of infusion. Consider immediate discontinuation of the intravenous infusion if severe infusion reactions occur. In patients with CLL, withhold alemtuzumab for Grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions; if therapy is interrupted for 7 days or more, alemtuzumab should be reinstituted with gradual dose escalation. Infusion-related reactions that have been reported during use have included anaphylaxis (including anaphylactic shock), angioedema, bronchospasm, hypotension, chest pain, bradycardia, tachycardia (including atrial fibrillation), transient neurologic symptoms, hypertension, headache, pyrexia, and rash. Other infusion-related reactions reported included nausea, urticaria, pruritus, insomnia, chills, flushing, fatigue, dyspnea, pulmonary infiltrates, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, dizziness, and pain. During postmarketing use, other serious and sometimes fatal infusion reactions included hypoxia, syncope, acute respiratory distress syndrome, respiratory arrest, myocardial infarction, acute cardiac insufficiency, and cardiac arrest. Institute medical management (e.g., glucocorticoids, epinephrine, etc.) for infusion reactions as needed.


malignancy


Alemtuzumab, when given in patients with mulitple sclerosis (MS), may increase the risk of developing a new malignancy such as thyroid cancer, melanoma, lymphoproliferative disorders, and lymphoma. Monitor MS patients for symptoms of thyroid cancer such as lump or swelling in the neck, pain in front of the neck, persistent hoarseness or other voice changes, trouble swallowing or breathing, or persistent cough not related to a respiratory infection. Baseline and yearly skin examinations should be performed to assess for melanoma or other skin cancer. Use caution when treating patients with pre-existing history of malignancy or ongoing malignancies.


pregnancy


Alemtuzumab may cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy. Advise people of reproductive potential to avoid pregnancy during treatment and for at least 3 to 4 months after the last dose. In animal studies, alemtuzumab was embryo-lethal in mice when administered during organogenesis. Monoclonal antibodies are transported across the placenta as pregnancy progresses; therefore, it is likely that the drug is transmitted to the developing fetus. Alemtuzumab treatment can result in the formation of autoantibodies and increase the risk of autoimmune conditions. Alemtuzumab-induced autoimmune thyroid disease poses special risks in people who are pregnant. Untreated hypothyroidism in pregnant individuals increases the risk of miscarriage and may have effects on the fetus including intellectual disabilities and dwarfism. In patients with Graves disease, thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibodies can transfer to the developing fetus. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to alemtuzumab; information about the registry can be obtained by calling 1-800-745-4447 (option 2).


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with alemtuzumab. Alemtuzumab can cause fetal harm. It is recommended to verify pregnancy status in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia prior to treatment initiation. Advise this population to use effective contraception while taking this medication and for at least 3 months after the last dose. If alemtuzumab is being used to treat multiple sclerosis, contraception is recommended during treatment and for 4 months after the last dose. Based on animal data, alemtuzumab may impair male and female fertility. It is not known if the effects on fertility are reversible.


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Monoclonal antibodies are transported across the placenta as pregnancy progresses, with the largest amount transported during the third trimester. Consider the risks and benefits of administering live or live-attenuated vaccines to neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero. Alemtuzumab treatment can result in the formation of autoantibodies and increase the risk of autoimmune conditions. In patients with Graves disease, thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibodies can transfer to the developing fetus. In a pregnant person who developed Graves disease after treatment with alemtuzumab, placental transfer of anti-thyrotropin receptor antibodies resulted in neonatal Graves disease with thyroid storm in a child born 1 year after alemtuzumab dosing.


adolescents, children, infants, neonates


The safety and efficacy of alemtuzumab in multiple sclerosis patients less than 17 years of age have not been established. Use of alemtuzumab is not recommended in adolescents, children, infants, or neonates due to the risks of autoimmunity, infusion reactions, and because it may increase the risk of malignancy (e.g., thyroid cancer, melanoma, lymphoproliferative disorders, and lymphoma). The safety and efficacy of alemtuzumab in pediatric patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia have also not been established. Use of alemtuzumab for cancer or other conditions is considered off-label and is limited, often for high-risk pediatric patients with specific conditions.


breast-feeding


Use alemtuzumab with caution during breast-feeding. No data are available on the presence of alemtuzumab in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Alemtuzumab may be present in human milk, as IgG is excreted in human milk. However, because of its large molecular weight, alemtuzumab is unlikely to be present in human milk in significant amounts. In addition, any amount present in human milk is likely to be partially destroyed in the gastrointestinal tract of the breastfed child and have minimal absorption. FDA-approved labeling recommends avoidance of breast-feeding during alemtuzumab treatment and for 3 months after the last dose, because of the potential for serious side effects (e.g., lymphopenia) in the breastfed child.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Alemtuzumab may cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy. Advise people of reproductive potential to avoid pregnancy during treatment and for at least 3 to 4 months after the last dose. In animal studies, alemtuzumab was embryo-lethal in mice when administered during organogenesis. Monoclonal antibodies are transported across the placenta as pregnancy progresses; therefore, it is likely that the drug is transmitted to the developing fetus. Alemtuzumab treatment can result in the formation of autoantibodies and increase the risk of autoimmune conditions. Alemtuzumab-induced autoimmune thyroid disease poses special risks in people who are pregnant. Untreated hypothyroidism in pregnant individuals increases the risk of miscarriage and may have effects on the fetus including intellectual disabilities and dwarfism. In patients with Graves disease, thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibodies can transfer to the developing fetus. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to alemtuzumab; information about the registry can be obtained by calling 1-800-745-4447 (option 2).


Interactions

Acebutolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Alpha interferons: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Anifrolumab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as alemtuzumab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Captopril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Cladribine: (Major) Concomitant use of cladribine with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
cloZAPine: (Major) It is unclear if concurrent use of other drugs known to cause neutropenia (e.g., antineoplastic agents) increases the risk or severity of clozapine-induced neutropenia. Because there is no strong rationale for avoiding clozapine in patients treated with these drugs, consider increased absolute neutrophil count (ANC) monitoring and consult the treating oncologist.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Some antineoplastic agents have been reported to decrease the absorption of digoxin tablets due to their adverse effects on the GI mucosa; the effect on digoxin liquid is not known. The reduction in digoxin tablet absorption has resulted in plasma concentrations that are 50% of pretreatment levels and has been clinically significant in some patients. It is prudent to closely monitor patients for loss of clinical efficacy of digoxin while receiving antineoplastic therapy.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Dimethyl Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of dimethyl fumarate with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Diroximel Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of diroximel fumarate with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Filgrastim, G-CSF: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and, because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Fingolimod: (Major) Concomitant use of fingolimod with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Glatiramer: (Major) Concomitant use of glatiramer with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Interferon Beta-1a: (Major) Concomitant use of interferon beta with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Interferon Beta-1b: (Major) Concomitant use of interferon beta with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Losartan: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
mitoXANTRONE: (Major) Concomitant use of mitoxantrone with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Natalizumab: (Major) Natalizumab should not be used in combination with alemtuzumab because of the potential for increased risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and other serious infections. Ordinarily, multiple sclerosis patients receiving chronic immunomodulatory therapy should not be treated with natalizumab. No formal studies have studied the combination of alemtuzumab and natalizumab.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Ocrelizumab: (Major) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as alemtuzumab. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Major) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as alemtuzumab. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Ofatumumab: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofatumumab with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Ofatumumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as alemtuzumab. Consider the duration and mechanism of action of drugs with immunosuppressive effects when switching therapies for multiple sclerosis patients.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Ozanimod: (Major) Initiating treatment with ozanimod after alemtuzumab treatment is not recommended due to the characteristics and duration of the immunosuppressive effects of alemtuzumab.
Pegfilgrastim: (Major) Pegfilgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, pegfilgrastim should not be given 14 days before or for 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Peginterferon beta-1a: (Major) Concomitant use of peginterferon beta-1a with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Ponesimod: (Major) Initiating treatment with ponesimod after alemtuzumab treatment is not recommended due to the characteristics and duration of the immunosuppressive effects of alemtuzumab.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Siponimod: (Major) Initiating treatment with siponimod after alemtuzumab treatment is not recommended due to the characteristics and duration of the immunosuppresive effects of alemtuzumab.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Tbo-Filgrastim: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and, because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Concomitant use of teriflunomide with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Timolol: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alemtuzumab with immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.


Adverse Reaction
lymphopenia


Severe lymphopenia and a rapid sustained lymphocyte count decrease have been reported in a pooled analysis of 296 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients treated with alemtuzumab in clinical trials. Grade 3 or 4 lymphopenia occurred in 97% of patients with previously untreated CLL who received IV alemtuzumab (n = 147) in a randomized, comparative trial. The median CD4+ count was 0 cells/microliter (mcL) at 1 month after starting alemtuzumab and 238 cells/mcL at 6 months post-treatment. Monitor CD4+ counts after treatment until recovery to 200 cells/mcL or more. Unless emergent circumstances dictate immediate transfusion, administer only irradiated blood products to avoid transfusion-related graft versus host disease. In clinical trials of patients with multiple sclerosis, 99.9% of patients experienced lymphopenia. Lowest lymphocyte counts occurred 1 month after each course of treatment and increased to reach the lower limit of normal in approximately 40% of patients in 6 months and approximately 80% of patients in 12 months after each treatment course.


anemia, aplastic anemia, autoimmune disease, bleeding, bone marrow suppression, hemolytic anemia, hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, neutropenia, pancytopenia, purpura, red cell aplasia, sarcoidosis, thrombocytopenia, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)


Hematologic adverse events including severe and sometimes fatal autoimmune cytopenias and prolonged myelosuppression have occurred with alemtuzumab use. Monitor for unusual bleeding or bruising or other related side effect symptoms. Neutropenia (all grade, 77%; grade 3/4, 42%), anemia (all grade, 76%; grade 3/4, 13%), and thrombocytopenia (all grade, 71%; grade 3/4, 13%) occurred in previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients who received IV alemtuzumab (n = 147) in a randomized, comparative trial. In this study, the median time to grade 3 or 4 neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia onset was 31 days (median duration, 37 days), 31 days (median duration, 8 days), and 9 days (median duration, 14 days), respectively. Grade 3 and 4 neutropenia (64%), anemia (38%), and thrombocytopenia (52%) were also reported with alemtuzumab use in previously treated CLL patients; the median duration of neutropenia and thrombocytopenia in these patients was 28 days and 21 days, respectively. Autoimmune disease may result in a variety of hematologic, thyroid, renal, inflammatory, or pulmonary disorders. Use CBC results to monitor for cytopenias. Prompt medical intervention is indicated if a cytopenia is confirmed. Autoimmune neutropenia (0.1%), autoimmune hemolytic anemia (0.3%), and autoimmune pancytopenia (0.2%) occurred in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients treated with alemtuzumab during clinical trials. One MS patient with autoimmune pancytopenia died from sepsis. In cases of autoimmune hemolytic anemia, patients tested positive for direct antiglobulin antibodies and nadir hemoglobin concentrations ranged from 2.9 to 8.6 grams/dL. Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) occurred in 2% of MS patients treated with alemtuzumab; nadir platelet counts of 20,000 cells/mcL or less occurred in 2% of alemtuzumab-treated patients, and anti-platelet antibodies did not precede ITP onset. ITP has been diagnosed more than 3 years following the last dose of alemtuzumab. Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a rare but serious uncontrolled immune system response that may result in hospitalization and death, has been reported in postmarketing surveillance of alemtuzumab. Severe inflammation occurs throughout the body leading to severe problems with blood cells and organs throughout the body. HLH typically presents with a fever (more than 101 degrees F) and rash. Other signs and symptoms may include enlarged liver with pain, tenderness, or unusual swelling over the liver area in the upper right belly, swollen lymph nodes, yellow skin or eyes, unusual bleeding, hypertriglyceridemia, or nervous system problems (seizures, trouble walking, difficulty seeing, or other visual disturbances). In cases of HLH reported with alemtuzumab, most patients presented with fever, elevated ferritin, transaminitis, hypertriglyceridemia, and all patients required hospitalization. Symptoms have been reported to occur within approximately 13 to 33 months following treatment initiation. Patients who develop early manifestations of pathologic immune activation should be evaluated immediately for HLH. Discontinue alemtuzumab if an alternate etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established. Other serious events that have been reported at recommended alemtuzumab doses include bone marrow suppression and cytopenias (e.g., pure red cell aplasia, bone marrow aplasia, and hypoplasia); doses greater than 30 mg/dose or greater than 90 mg/week increase the risk of pancytopenia. Cases of severe (including fatal) neutropenia have been reported within 2 months of alemtuzumab infusion in MS patients; some cases resolved with receiving granulocyte-colony stimulating factor treatment. Mild to moderate decreases in platelet counts, starting at the time of alemtuzumab infusion and often resolving without treatment, have been reported. In postmarketing surveillance, fatal autoimmune hemolytic anemia and aplastic anemia were reported in patients with B-CLL who received IV alemtuzumab, generally at higher and more frequent doses than used in MS patients. Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) has been reported during postmarketing experience in patients with MS treated with alemtuzumab. TTP is characterized by thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, neurological sequelae, fever, and renal impairment. Discontinue alemtuzumab if TTP is confirmed or an alternative etiology for symptoms cannot be confirmed. In CLL patients, obtain complete blood counts weekly during therapy and more often if blood and platelet counts worsen; hold and/or dose reduce alemtuzumab therapy in patients who develop neutropenia and/or thrombocytopenia. In MS patients, monitor CBC with differential before treatment and every month thereafter for 48 months after the last dose. Discontinue therapy in patients who develop autoimmune cytopenias or recurrent or persistent cytopenias (except lymphopenia). Educate patients about the signs and symptoms of these hematologic adverse reactions. Additionally, sarcoidosis has been reported during postmarketing experience with alemtuzumab in patients with MS.


candidiasis, cervical dysplasia, infection, influenza, pharyngitis


Serious, including fatal, bacterial, viral, fungal, and protozoan infections can occur in patients receiving alemtuzumab. Due to severe lymphopenia that occurs with alemtuzumab therapy, patients are at increased risk for opportunistic infection. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) viremia (all grade, 55%; grade 3/4, 4%), CMV infection (all grade, 16%; grade 3/4, 5%), and other infections (all grade, 74%; grade 3/4, 21%) were reported in alemtuzumab-treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients in the randomized, comparative trial. CMV infection occurred in 6% of previously treated CLL patients. In a pooled analysis of all studies, an infection was reported in 50% of alemtuzumab-treated patients, and sepsis was reported in 3% to 10% of alemtuzumab-treated CLL patients. Infection-related death was reported in 2% and 16% of previously untreated and previously treated patients, respectively. In postmarketing surveillance, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection including severe and fatal EBV-associated hepatitis, EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorder, and latent virus reactivation were reported in patients who received IV alemtuzumab. Monitor CLL patients for signs and symptoms of EBV infection; hold alemtuzumab therapy for EBV reactivation or severe infection. Preliminary safety information from the CALGB 10101 trial reported 6 infection-related deaths out of 51 patients with previously untreated B-cell CLL. Patients in this trial received 6 cycles of fludarabine and rituximab, then alemtuzumab consolidation beginning 4 months after the last dose of chemotherapy. Fatal infections were reported as viral meningitis, Listeria meningitis, Legionella pneumonia, CMV, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), and EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorder. In multiple sclerosis patients, infections occurred in 71% of alemtuzumab-treated patients vs. 53% of interferon beta 1a-treated patients during clinical trials. More herpes viral infections occurred with alemtuzumab vs. interferon beta-1a (16% vs. 3%), including oral herpes (8.8%), herpes zoster (4.2%), herpes simplex (1.8%), genital herpes (1.3%), primary varicella (0.1%), and herpes meningitis (0.1%). Other reported infections included human papillomavirus (HPV) infection (including cervical dysplasia, 2%), active and latent tuberculosis (0.3%), fungal infections (mostly oral or vaginal candidiasis, 12%), and Listeria infections (e.g., meningitis, encephalitis, sepsis, and gastroenteritis). Fatal cases of Listeria meningoencephalitis have occurred in alemtuzumab-treated patients. Listeria infections have occurred as early as 3 days after treatment and up to 8 months after the last alemtuzumab dose; the duration of increased risk for Listeria infection is unknown. Naso-pharyngitis (25%), urinary tract infection (19%), upper respiratory tract infection (16%), sinusitis (11%), influenza (8%), and bronchitis (7%) were also observed. In the postmarketing setting, opportunistic infections including aspergillosis, coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), nocardiosis, CMV, and Epstein-Barr virus infections occurred. In multiple sclerosis patients, alemtuzumab is contraindicated during an active infection. Administer PCP and herpes virus prophylaxis for CLL patients and herpes virus prophylaxis for multiple sclerosis patients during therapy and for a minimum of 2 months after stopping alemtuzumab or until CD4 counts recover to 200 cells/mcL or more, whichever occurs later. In CLL patients, monitor for signs of CMV infection during therapy and for 2 months or more after stopping alemtuzumab. Hold therapy in patients who develop a serious infection, including CMV viremia or infection, until resolution. Treat CMV infections with ganciclovir (or equivalent).


progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, weakness


One case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), an opportunistic viral infection of the brain caused by the JC virus (JCV), has been reported in a patient with MS treated with alemtuzumab in the postmarketing setting. PML was diagnosed 2 months after the second course of alemtuzumab. The patient had not received other drugs for the treatment of MS for more than a year and was not taking any immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory medications. Following diagnosis, the patient developed immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS). Residual neurologic sequelae remained at patient follow-up. Withhold alemtuzumab and perform an appropriate diagnostic evaluation at the first sign or symptom of PML. Typical symptoms of PML are diverse, progress over days to weeks, and include progressive weakness on one side or clumsiness of the limbs; vision disturbance; and changes in thinking, memory, and orientation leading to confusion and personality changes. MRI findings may be visible before clinical signs and symptoms. Hence, MRI monitoring for signs that may be consistent with PML may be useful, and any suspicious findings should spark further investigation to allow for early diagnosis of PML. PML has also been reported during postmarketing experience with alemtuzumab in patients with CLL.


bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis, wheezing


Dyspnea occurred in 14% of patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who received IV alemtuzumab (n = 147) in a randomized, comparative trial; additionally, grade 3 or 4 dyspnea was reported in 4% of patients. In a pooled analysis of 3 single-arm studies (n = 149), bronchospasm was reported in more than 5% of previously treated CLL patients who received alemtuzumab. Dyspnea occurred in 8% of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS, n = 811) treated with alemtuzumab during 2 active-controlled trials. Cough (9%) was also observed. Additionally, pneumonitis of varying severity occurred in 0.5% of MS patients; cases of hypersensitivity pneumonitis and pneumonitis with fibrosis (pulmonary fibrosis) were also observed. Educate patients to report symptoms of pneumonitis such as shortness of breath, cough, wheezing, chest pain or tightness, and hemoptysis.


abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting


Gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions are fairly common with alemtuzumab. Diarrhea occurred in 10% of patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who received alemtuzumab intravenously (IV) (n = 147) in a randomized, comparative trial; additionally, grade 3 or 4 diarrhea was reported in 1% of these patients. In a pooled analysis of 3 single-arm studies (n = 149), nausea, vomiting, anorexia, and mucositis were reported in greater than 5% of previously treated CLL patients who received alemtuzumab IV. During active-controlled studies, patients with multiple sclerosis (MS, n = 811) experienced more GI adverse reactions versus those who received interferon beta-1a, including nausea (21% vs. 9%), diarrhea (12% vs. 6%), abdominal pain (10% vs. 5%), vomiting (10% vs. 3%), dysgeusia (8% vs. 7%), oropharyngeal pain (11% vs. 5%), and dyspepsia (8% vs. 4%).


dizziness, dysesthesia, headache, paresthesias, tremor


Nervous system adverse events including headache (all grade, 14%; grade 3/4, 1%) and tremor (all grade, 3%) occurred in patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who received IV alemtuzumab (n = 147) in a randomized, comparative trial. In a pooled analysis of 3 single-arm studies (n = 149), dysesthesia was reported in more than 5% of previously treated CLL patients who received alemtuzumab. Headache (52%), paresthesias (10%), and dizziness (10%) were observed in patients with multiple sclerosis (n = 811) treated with alemtuzumab during two active-controlled trials.


anxiety, depression, insomnia, suicidal ideation


Psychiatric adverse events including insomnia (10% to 16%) and anxiety (7% to 8%) occurred in patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n = 147) and in patients with multiple sclerosis (n = 811) who received alemtuzumab in controlled clinical trials. Suicidal ideation or behavior was reported in 0.6% of patients with multiple sclerosis (n = 811) who received alemtuzumab during active-controlled trials. Of note, 0.6% of patients who received interferon beta-1a (active control, n = 389) also had suicidal behavior. No suicides were completed in either treatment group. This behavior occurred in patients with and without a history of a psychiatric or thyroid disorder. Educate patients to immediately report symptoms of depression or suicidal ideation to their healthcare provider.


arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, myasthenia gravis, Still disease


In a pooled analysis of 3 single-arm studies (n = 149), musculoskeletal pain was reported in more than 5% of previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients who received alemtuzumab. Arthralgia (12%), extremity pain (12%), back pain (12%), myasthenia (muscular weakness, 7%), muscle cramps or spasms (6%), myalgia (6%), and neck pain (5%) were reported among multiple sclerosis patients who received alemtuzumab during two active-controlled clinical trials (n = 811). Myasthenia gravis, Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, and Adult Onset Still disease (AOSD) have been reported during postmarketing experience with alemtuzumab in patients with multiple sclerosis. AOSD may present as a combination of fever, arthritis, rash, and leukocytosis in the absence of infection, malignancy, or other rheumatic conditions. Promptly evaluate patients with signs or symptoms of AOSD. Discontinue alemtuzumab in patients presenting with such signs and symptoms in whom an alternative etiology cannot be identified.


atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, chest pain (unspecified), heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, sinus tachycardia


Cardiac adverse events including arrhythmias (all grade, 14%; grade 3/4, 1%), hypotension (all grade, 16%; grade 3/4, 1%), and hypertension (all grade, 14%; grade 3/4, 5%) occurred in patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV alemtuzumab (n = 147) in a randomized, comparative trial. Most arrhythmias were sinus tachycardia (10%) and were associated with the alemtuzumab infusion. In postmarketing surveillance, congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy, and decreased ejection fraction were reported in patients who received IV alemtuzumab. During two active-controlled trials with multiple sclerosis patients (n = 811), sinus tachycardia (8%) and chest pain (unspecified) (7%) were reported. Atrial fibrillation and bradycardia were observed during infusion reactions.


asthenia, fatigue, peripheral edema


In a pooled analysis of 3 single-arm studies (n = 149), fatigue was reported in greater than 5% of previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients who received alemtuzumab. Fatigue was reported in 18% of patients with multiple sclerosis (n = 811) who received alemtuzumab during active-controlled trials. Additionally, asthenia (5%) and peripheral edema (5%) were observed.


tumor lysis syndrome (TLS)


In postmarketing surveillance, tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) was reported in patients who received IV alemtuzumab.


alopecia, erythema, pruritus, rash, urticaria


Dermatologic adverse events including urticaria (all grade, 16%; grade 3/4, 2%), rash (unspecified) (all grade, 13%; grade 3/4, 1%), and erythema (all grade, 4%) occurred in patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV alemtuzumab (n = 147) in a randomized, comparative trial. Dermatologic reactions were more common in multiple sclerosis patients who received alemtuzumab (n = 811) vs. interferon beta-1a (n = 389) across clinical trials. These included rash (unspecified) (53% vs. 6%), urticaria (16% vs. 2%), pruritus (14% vs. 2%), dermatitis (8% vs. 5%), and erythema (5% vs. 2%). Additionally, alopecia has been reported with postmarketing use of alemtuzumab for treatment of multiple sclerosis.


acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, cardiac arrest, chills, fever, flushing, hypoxia, infusion-related reactions, myocardial infarction, respiratory arrest, syncope


Infusion-related reactions including fever, chills/rigors, nausea, hypotension, urticaria, dyspnea, rash, vomiting, chest pain, bradycardia, tachycardia (including atrial fibrillation), hypertension, headache, pruritus, insomnia, fatigue, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, transient neurologic symptoms (unspecified), and bronchospasm have occurred commonly during or following the alemtuzumab infusion, with 10% to 92% of patients experiencing reactions during clinical trials. Fever (all grade, 69%; grade 3/4, 10%) and chills (all grade, 53%; grade 3/4, 3%) occurred in patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who received IV alemtuzumab (n = 147) in a randomized, comparative trial. Grade 3 and 4 fever and/or chills were also reported in 35% of previously treated CLL patients treated with alemtuzumab. During active-controlled clinical trials in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), fever occurred in 29% of alemtuzumab-treated patients compared to 9% of patients who received interferon beta-1a. Flushing and chills were observed in 10% and 9% of alemtuzumab-treated MS patients, respectively. In clinical trials, the incidence of infusion reactions was usually highest in the first week of alemtuzumab therapy in CLL patients. Other serious infusion-related reactions including hypoxia, syncope, pulmonary infiltrates, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), respiratory arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, acute cardiac insufficiency, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, angioedema, and anaphylactic shock or other anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients who received IV alemtuzumab; some cases were fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms and advised to seek immediate medical attention if any of these symptoms occur. In CLL patients, hold alemtuzumab therapy in patients who develop grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions. To minimize infusion reactions, initiate alemtuzumab in CLL patients using an escalated dosing regimen and premedicate patients with diphenhydramine and acetaminophen prior to the first infusion and before each dose escalation. Premedicate patients with MS with corticosteroids immediately prior to infusion for the first 3 days of each treatment course; antihistamines and antipyretics may also be used. Obtain a baseline ECG prior to infusion in patients with MS, and monitor vital signs before the infusion and periodically during the infusion. Observe patients for infusion reactions during and for at least 2 hours after infusion. Consider immediate discontinuation of the infusion if severe infusion reactions occur. Medically manage infusion reactions as needed (e.g., glucocorticoids, epinephrine, etc.).


intracranial bleeding, stroke


Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of stroke or arterial dissection within the head and neck during treatment with alemtuzumab. Rare, but serious cases of stroke and tears in the lining of arteries (arterial dissection) of the head and neck have been observed, most often within 1 day of receiving treatment, although cases have been reported to occur a few (3) days after treatment. Over 5 years, 13 cases of ischemic and hemorrhage stroke and cervicocephalic arterial dissection occurred. All adverse events occurred within 3 days following alemtuzumab administration, with 12 of the 13 cases occurring within 1 day of a dose. Cases included 7 hemorrhagic strokes, 1 ischemic stroke, 1 ischemic stroke and dissection of bilateral carotid and right vertebral arteries, 2 dissections that involved the right carotid and left vertebral arteries, and 2 unspecified types of stroke. Although individual risk factors were fully assessed in all cases, the occurrence of these events within 1 day of administration suggests an association with alemtuzumab. The etiology of these adverse events is unclear; however, events occurred during the same time frame as cytokine release syndrome, a known systemic inflammatory response syndrome that can occur after alemtuzumab administration. Cytokine release symptoms, including cytokine storm, were reported in some patients, including 1 patient who died of a hemorrhagic stroke. Cases of ischemic stroke and intracranial bleeding were observed in patients with hematologic cancers treated with alemtuzumab; however, a causal relationship has not been established due to underlying patient risk factors or concomitant medications. During postmarketing use of alemtuzumab in multiple sclerosis patients, cases of pulmonary alveolar hemorrhage, stroke (including ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke), and cervicocephalic (e.g., vertebral, carotid) arterial dissection have been reported following infusion. Time to onset was within 1 to 3 days of alemtuzumab infusion in the majority of cases. Cases of pulmonary alveolar hemorrhage have been reported within 48 hours of infusion in multiple sclerosis patients.


diabetes mellitus, Guillain-Barre syndrome, optic neuritis, retinopathy, serum sickness, skin hypopigmentation


Autoimmune adverse events with alemtuzumab use may be severe and sometimes fatal. Autoimmune disease may result in a variety of hematologic, thyroid, renal, inflammatory, ocular, or pulmonary disorders. Non-hematologic autoimmune events including rheumatoid arthritis and retinal pigment epitheliopathy (a type of retinopathy) each occurred in 0.1% of patients during clinical trials of patients who received alemtuzumab for multiple sclerosis. Additionally, vitiligo (skin hypopigmentation) occurred in 0.3% of patients, while type 1 diabetes mellitus and undifferentiated connective tissue disorders each occurred in 0.2% of patients. Guillain-Barre syndrome and optic neuritis or optic neuropathy have been reported during postmarketing use. Cases of autoimmune encephalitis (AIE) have been reported in patients who received alemtuzumab for multiple sclerosis. Signs and symptoms of AIE may include subacute onset of memory impairment, altered mental status, seizures, and other psychiatric or neurological findings. Discontinue alemtuzumab if AIE is confirmed by the presence of neural autoantibodies or the presence of clinical symptoms with no alternative etiologies. In postmarketing surveillance, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy, serum sickness, and fatal transfusion reaction associated with graft-versus-host disease were reported in patients who received IV alemtuzumab for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).


hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, thyrotoxicosis


Autoimmune adverse events with alemtuzumab use may be severe. Non-hematologic autoimmune events reported with alemtuzumab include autoimmune thyroid disorders; some reports have occurred more than 7 years following the first alemtuzumab dose. Autoimmune thyroid disorders reported include Graves disease, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, autoimmune thyroiditis, and goiter. In patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) who received alemtuzumab during clinical trials, 36.8% experienced a thyroid disorder. Graves ophthalmopathy with decreased vision, eye pain, and exophthalmos occurred in 2% of patients, with some patients requiring surgical orbital decompression. Serious cardiac and psychiatric events are sometimes associated with thyroid disease. Thyroidectomy was performed in 3% of patients. Alemtuzumab-induced autoimmune thyroid disease poses special risks during pregnancy for both the pregnant individual and the fetus. Untreated hypothyroidism in pregnant individuals increases the risk of miscarriage and may have effects on the fetus including intellectual disabilities and dwarfism. In patients with Graves disease, thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibodies can transfer to the developing fetus. In a pregnant person who developed Graves disease after treatment with alemtuzumab for MS, placental transfer of anti-thyrotropin receptor antibodies resulted in neonatal Graves disease with thyroid storm (thyrotoxicosis) in a child 1 year after maternal alemtuzumab administration. In treated patients, obtain thyroid function (e.g., TSH) prior to treatment initiation and every 3 months thereafter until 48 months after the last infusion. Thereafter, test if clinically indicated or if the person is pregnant. In patients with an ongoing thyroid disorder, give alemtuzumab only if the potential benefit outweighs risks.


clotting factor deficiency, coagulopathy, epistaxis, vaginal bleeding


Abnormal uterine or vaginal bleeding (5%) and epistaxis (5%) were reported during active-controlled clinical trials with multiple sclerosis patients who received alemtuzumab (n = 811). Autoimmune adverse events with alemtuzumab use may be severe and sometimes fatal. Autoimmune disease may result in a variety of hematologic disorders. Hematologic autoimmune events including acquired hemophilia A (anti-Factor VIII antibodies, clotting factor deficiency, and coagulopathy) occurred in 0.1% of patients during clinical trials of patients who received alemtuzumab for multiple sclerosis and during postmarketing experience. Obtain a coagulopathy panel including aPTT in patients who present with symptoms such as subcutaneous hematomas, extensive bruising, hematuria, epistaxis, gastrointestinal bleeding, or other types of bleeding. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of acquired hemophilia A and advise them seek immediate medical attention if any of these symptoms occur.


glomerulonephritis, hematuria, renal failure (unspecified)


Autoimmune adverse events due to alemtuzumab may be severe. Autoimmune disease may result in a variety of renal and inflammatory disorders. Blood in the urine (hematuria, 8%) was reported during active-controlled clinical trials with multiple sclerosis (MS) patients who received alemtuzumab (n = 811), and autoimmune kidney disease (glomerular nephropathies) occurred in 0.3% of alemtuzumab-treated patients. Three cases of membranous glomerulonephritis and 2 cases of anti-glomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM) disease (Goodpasture syndrome) were reported. Nephropathy can be severe and lead to renal failure (unspecified). Postmarketing cases of end-stage renal disease requiring transplant related to the development of anti-GBM disease have been observed. Symptoms of nephropathy may include edema, hematuria, change in urine color, decreased urine output, fatigue, dyspnea, and hemoptysis. Urgent evaluation and treatment is required, because early treatment can preserve renal function. Anti-GBM disease can be life-threatening if left untreated. Alveolar hemorrhage, manifested as hemoptysis, is a common component of anti-GBM disease and has been reported in postmarketing cases. Cases of anti-GBM disease have been diagnosed up to 40 months after the last dose of alemtuzumab. In multiple sclerosis patients, measure urine protein to creatinine ratio before treatment initiation. Monitoring of serum creatinine concentrations and urinalysis with cell counts before initiation of treatment and then monthly thereafter for 48 months after the last infusion is recommended. Thereafter, monitor based on clinical findings suggestive of autoimmunity. For urine dipstick results of 1+ protein or more, measure the urine protein creatinine ratio. For urine protein: creatinine ratios of 200 mg/gram or more, an increase in serum creatinine greater than 30%, or unexplained hematuria, perform further investigation for nephropathies. Increased serum creatinine with hematuria or signs of pulmonary involvement of anti-GBM disease (e.g., hemoptysis, exertional dyspnea) warrant immediate evaluation. Early detection and treatment of nephropathies may decrease the risk of poor outcomes. In postmarketing surveillance, Goodpasture syndrome and glomerular nephropathies have been reported in patients who received IV alemtuzumab for chronic lymphocytic leukemia.


cholecystitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, jaundice


Cholecystitis, including acalculous cholecystitis and acute acalculous cholecystitis, has been observed during alemtuzumab use. Acute acalculous cholecystitis is a condition associated with high morbidity and mortality rates if it is not diagnosed early and treated. Symptoms may include abdominal pain or tenderness, nausea, vomiting, and fever. Leukocytosis and elevated hepatic enzymes are commonly observed. Time to onset of symptoms ranged from less than 24 hours to 2 months after the infusion. During controlled clinical trials of alemtuzumab in patients with multiple sclerosis, 0.2% of alemtuzumab-treated patients developed acute acalculous cholecystitis, compared to 0% of interferon beta-1a-treated patients. Additional cases have been reported during postmarketing experience. Autoimmune hepatitis resulting in clinically significant liver injury and acute hepatic failure requiring transplant has occurred during alemtuzumab therapy. In multiple sclerosis patients, measure serum transaminases (ALT and AST) and total bilirubin concentrations before treatment and periodically until 48 months after the last dose. If a patient develops clinical signs of liver dysfunction, including unexplained liver enzyme elevations or symptoms suggestive of liver injury (e.g., unexplained nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, anorexia, or jaundice and/or dark urine), promptly assess liver function and interrupt or discontinue treatment as appropriate. Additionally, viral hepatitis has been reported during postmarketing experience.


antibody formation


Antibody formation has been reported in patients who received alemtuzumab. Anti-human antibodies were detected in 8.3% of previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients (n = 11 of 133); weakly neutralizing antibodies were detected in 2 patients. Additionally, alemtuzumab antibodies were measured in 4 of 211 previously treated CLL patients (1.9%). In patients given alemtuzumab for multiple sclerosis, alemtuzumab antibodies were detected in 62%, 67%, and 29% of patients at months 1, 3, 12 and 83%, 83%, and 75% of patients at months 13, 15, and 24, respectively. Neutralizing antibodies were detected in 87%, 46%, and 5% of positive binding antibody patients at months 1, 3, 12 and 94%, 88%, and 42% of positive binding antibody patients at months 13, 15, and 24, respectively. Antibodies were associated with decreased alemtuzumab concentrations but significant effects on clinical outcomes, total lymphocyte counts, or adverse reactions were not observed in clinical trials. High titer antibodies associated with incomplete lymphocyte depletion following a third or fourth treatment course occurred in 13 patients; however, these was no clear effect of the antibodies on the safety or efficacy of alemtuzumab.


lymphoma, new primary malignancy, skin cancer


Alemtuzumab may increase the risk of a new primary malignancy. In active-controlled clinical trials of patients with multiple sclerosis (n = 919), 0.3% of alemtuzumab-treated patients developed thyroid cancer compared to 0% in the interferon beta-1a treatment group. Two additional cases of thyroid cancer occurred in uncontrolled studies. Of note, screening for thyroid cancer was performed more frequently with alemtuzumab treatment because of the risk of autoimmune thyroid disorders. Melanoma or melanoma in situ skin cancer also occurred in 0.3% of alemtuzumab-treated patients. Cases of MALT lymphoma, Castleman's disease, Epstein Barr virus-associated lymphoproliferative disorders, and a fatality following treatment of non-Epstein Barr virus-associated Burkitt's lymphoma have been reported. Educate patients to recognize symptoms of these malignancies, and use caution when initiating alemtuzumab in a patient with a pre-existing or active malignancy.


colitis


Immune-mediated colitis has been reported during postmarketing experience with alemtuzumab use in patients with multiple sclerosis. Some cases of colitis were serious, required hospitalization, and required systemic corticosteroid treatment. Colitis may have an acute and severe onset. Time to colitis onset ranged from a few months to years following alemtuzumab initiation. Monitor patients for immune-mediated colitis during and following treatment with alemtuzumab and promptly evaluate the patient if signs or symptoms of immune-mediated colitis occur, including new or persistent diarrhea or other GI symptoms. It is unknown if immune-mediated colitis associated with alemtuzumab is a monophasic disorder or if recurrent flares will occur.


infertility


There is a risk of infertility in male and female patients based on data from animal studies. It is not known if the effects on fertility are reversible.


Description

Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against the CD52 antigen. The CD52 antigen is expressed on the surface of normal and malignant B-lymphocytes, T-lymphocytes, NK cells, monocytes, macrophages, platelets, and tissues of the male reproductive system; the CD52 antigen is not expressed on hemopoietic stem cells. Alemtuzumab is used for the treatment of lymphoid malignancies including non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL), prolymphocytic leukemia, and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides). Alemtuzumab seems to have preferential effects in the blood and bone marrow as opposed to the spleen or lymph nodes, which indicates that alemtuzumab is most effective in patients with primarily hematologic disease. A significantly higher complete response rate was obtained with alemtuzumab (24%) than with chlorambucil (2%) receipt by patients with previously untreated B-cell CLL. Alemtuzumab also appears to be beneficial to patients with previously treated B-cell CLL; partial response rates of 21 to 31% and complete response rates of 0 to 2% were observed among patients who had been treated with alkylating agents, fludarabine, or other chemotherapies. Alemtuzumab (Campath) has been designated an orphan drug for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Campath is only available through a distribution program to ensure access for appropriate patients. Information about Campath distribution may be obtained by calling 1-877-422-6728. Alemtuzumab (Lemtrada) is approved for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), including relapsing-remitting disease and active secondary progressive disease. Due to the potential for serious adverse effects, it should generally be reserved for MS patients who have had an inadequate response to 2 or more drugs. Alemtuzumab is not recommended for use in MS patients with clinically isolated syndrome because of its safety profile.

Mechanism Of Action

Alemtuzumab is a recombinant humanized IgG1 kappa monoclonal antibody directed against the cell surface glycoprotein, CD52, a cell surface antigen present on T and B lymphocytes, and on natural killer cells, monocytes, and macrophages.
Effects in multiple sclerosis (MS): The precise mechanism by which alemtuzumab exerts its therapeutic effects in multiple sclerosis is unknown. However, the binding of the drug to CD52 and the effect on T lymphocytes is involved. Following cell surface binding to T and B lymphocytes, alemtuzumab results in antibody-dependent cellular cytolysis and complement-mediated lysis. The depletion of T and B cells is then followed by repletion of these cell lines over several months, which appears to have a beneficial effect on the immune system in MS patients. As immune reconstitution becomes more established, regulatory CD4+ T cells dominate the repopulated T cell population and are considered to be 1 of the factors contributing to long-term efficacy of alemtuzumab in MS. Clinical trials have demonstrated a dramatic effect on relapse rates as well as a positive effect on radiological disease outcomes and disability measures.
Effects in leukemia: The precise mechanism by which alemtuzumab exerts its therapeutic effects in leukemia is unknown but is presumed to involve binding to CD52. Following cell surface binding to T and B lymphocytes, alemtuzumab results in antibody-dependent cellular cytolysis and complement-mediated lysis. As an unconjugated monoclonal antibody, alemtuzumab relies on the ability of the monoclonal antibody itself to kill the cell directly (e.g., induce an apoptotic signal) or to activate effector mechanisms such as complement or T-cells to attack the targeted cells. In comparison, conjugated antibodies rely on a toxic moiety to destroy the targeted cells and the monoclonal antibody serves as a vector. Only certain cell-surface antigens allow cell lysis via complement or cellular cytotoxicity mechanisms (i.e., natural killer (NK) cells or cytotoxic T-cells); CD52 allows for cell lysis via both cellular cytotoxicity and complement mediated cytotoxicity. Alemtuzumab is also associated with the release of tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin-6, and interferon gamma. The sensitivity of lymphoid malignancies to anti-CD52 antibodies varies over 200-fold. T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia is very sensitive in vitro and in vivo. However, monocytes and monocytic leukemias are resistant to alemtuzumab in vivo despite expressing similar amounts of antigen.


Pharmacokinetics

Alemtuzumab is administered as an intravenous infusion or off-label as a subcutaneous injection. Distribution mainly occurs in the blood and interstitial space. The elimination half-life of alemtuzumab is approximately 2 weeks (Lemtrada) and 11 hours (range 2 to 32 hours) after a single 30 mg dose and 6 days (range 1 to 14 days) after 12 weeks of dosing (Campath).

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

Serum concentrations of alemtuzumab (Lemtrada) increased with each consecutive dose within a treatment course in 148 patients who received 12 mg/day for 5 consecutive days, followed by 12 mg/day on 3 consecutive days 12 months following the first treatment course. The highest observed concentrations occurred following the last infusion of a treatment course. Serum concentrations were undetectable within approximately 30 days following each treatment course. With repeated administration of alemtuzumab (Campath) according to the recommended dosing schedule over 12 weeks, systemic clearance decreased with repeated administration due to decreased receptor-mediated clearance (i.e., loss of CD52 receptors in the periphery).

Subcutaneous Route

In a study designed to assess alemtuzumab blood concentrations in patients after intravenous and subcutaneous administration, mean trough serum blood concentrations were found to be similar between the two arms (5.4 mcg/mL IV and subcutaneous). Accumulation of alemtuzumab in the blood (to an arbitrary threshold of 1 mcg/mL), took an average of 6 weeks longer with subcutaneous administration of alemtuzumab than with intravenous administration. The clinical implications of this are not known.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Moderate
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.


Injectable Administration


For intravenous infusion use only. Dilute drug prior to administration.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The solution is clear and colorless to slightly yellow.
 
General Information:
Administer in a setting in which equipment and personnel to appropriately manage anaphylaxis or serious infusion reactions are available. Administration can cause serious, sometimes fatal, infusion-related reactions. Carefully monitor the patient during the infusion.
Patients with CLL should be premedicated 30 minutes before the first dose, dose-escalation, and as needed with diphenhydramine (50 mg) and acetaminophen (500 to 1,000 mg) to decrease the incidence of infusion-related reactions.
Patients with multiple sclerosis should be premedicated with high dose corticosteroids (i.e., methylprednisolone 1,000 mg or equivalent) immediately prior to infusion for the first 3 days of each treatment course; concomitant use of antihistamines and/or antipyretics may be considered.
Patients should receive anti-infective prophylaxis to minimize the risk of opportunistic infections.
In chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients, sulfamethoxazole; trimethoprim DS twice daily 3 times per week or the equivalent for Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis and famciclovir 250 mg twice daily or the equivalent for herpetic prophylaxis are recommended.
In multiple sclerosis patients, anti-viral prophylaxis for herpetic viral infections should be given on the first day of each treatment course.
Continue prophylaxis for 2 months or more following treatment or until the CD4 count is 200 cells/mcL or more, whichever occurs later.


Intravenous Administration


Only administer as an intravenous (IV) infusion; do NOT administer as an IV push or bolus dose.
Do not add or simultaneously infuse other drugs through the same intravenous line.
No incompatibilities with polyvinylchloride (PVC) bags or PVC or polyethylene lined PVC administration sets have been observed.
Storage: Use within 8 hours after dilution. Solutions may be stored at room temperature (15 to 25 degrees C) or refrigerated (2 to 8 degrees C). Protect solutions from light.
 
Campath administration:
Preparation of infusion prior to IV administration:
Do not shake vial prior to use. Vials are preservative-free are intended for single-use only. Discard any drug not used to prepare an infusion dose.
Withdraw the appropriate dose from the vial.
Inject the dose into 100 mL 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Gently invert the bag to mix the solution.
Intravenous infusion:
Monitor vital signs before the infusion and periodically during the infusion. Provide appropriate symptomatic treatment for infusion reactions as needed.
Withhold alemtuzumab administration if a grade 3 or 4 infusion reaction occurs.
Infuse over 2 hours.
Observe patients for infusion reactions during and for at least 2 hours after each infusion.
Inform patients that they should report symptoms that occur during and after each infusion because they may indicate a need for prompt medical intervention.
 
Lemtrada administration:
Preparation of infusion prior to IV administration:
Do not shake vial prior to use. Vials are preservative-free are intended for single-use only. Discard any drug not used to prepare an infusion dose.
Withdraw 12 mg (1.2 mL) from the vial.
Inject the dose in 100 mL 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Gently invert the bag to mix the solution.
Intravenous infusion:
Monitor vital signs before the infusion and periodically during the infusion. Provide appropriate symptomatic treatment for infusion reactions as needed.
Consider immediate discontinuation if a severe infusion reaction occurs.
Infuse over 4 hours. Infusion duration may be extended if clinically indicated.
Observe patients for infusion reactions during and for at least 2 hours after each infusion.
Inform patients that they should report symptoms that occur during and after each infusion because they may indicate a need for prompt medical intervention.


Subcutaneous Administration

NOTE: Alemtuzumab is not FDA-approved for subcutaneous administration.
No dilution is necessary. Withdraw the desired amount of alemtuzumab 30 mg/mL solution for injection into a syringe.
Injection site skin reactions occur commonly with subcutaneous administration. Rotation of the injection site may be indicated.
Inject subcutaneously taking care not to inject intradermally.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Campath): Single doses greater than 30 mg IV or cumulative weekly doses greater than 90 mg IV are not recommended.
Treatment of relapsing multiple sclerosis (Lemtrada): 12 mg/dose IV.

Geriatric

Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Campath): Single doses greater than 30 mg IV or cumulative weekly doses greater than 90 mg IV are not recommended.
Treatment of relapsing multiple sclerosis (Lemtrada): 12 mg/dose IV.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

LEMTRADA 12mg/1.2mL Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier