=== Lazertinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5555)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Lazertinib is an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations, in combination with...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 240 mg PO daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism, thrombosis, cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, acneiform rash, pruritus, rash, xerosis, hemorrhoids, hypermagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy Pregnancy should be avoided by females of reproductive potential during lazertinib treatment and for at least 3 weeks after the last dose. Although there are no adequately... Patient counseling: Administer non-comedogenic skin moisturizer (ceramide-based or other formulations that provide long-lasting skin hydration and exclude drying agents) on the face and whole body... Emetic risk: Low

Brand Names
  - Lazcluze

Dosage Forms
  - Lazcluze 240mg Tablet
  - LAZCLUZE 80mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations, in combination with amivantamab
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          240 mg PO once daily in combination with amivantamab (1,400 mg IV once weekly for 5 weeks, followed by every 2 weeks; decrease the dose to 1,050 mg for patients weighing less than 80 kg) until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The first dose of amivantamab is given as a divided dose; administer lazertinib at any time prior to amivantamab when given on the same day. Administer prophylaxis for venous thromboembolic events (VTE) as recommended. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with lazertinib and amivantamab significantly improved median overall survival (not reached vs. 36.7 months) and median progression-free survival (23.7 months vs. 16.6 months) compared with osimertinib in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with either exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations in a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 clinical trial (MARIPOSA); the overall response rate was 78% versus 73% (complete response [CR], 5% vs. 3.5%) for a median response of 25.8 months versus 16.7 months, respectively. A similar percentage of patients had a duration of response of at least 6 months after treatment with lazertinib/amivantamab and osimertinib (86% vs. 85%); the duration of response was at least 12 months in 68% of patients in the lazertinib arm compared with 57% of those in the osimertinib arm.
      Heading
      for the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations, in combination with amivantamab; hyaluronidase†
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          240 mg PO once daily in combination with amivantamab; hyaluronidase until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. For patients weighing 80 kg or more, amivantamab; hyaluronidase is given as a once-weekly subcutaneous injection for 4 weeks (2,240 mg amivantamab/28,000 units hyaluronidase); beginning on day 1 of week 5, patients may receive amivantamab; hyaluronidase on an every-2-week schedule (2,240 mg amivantamab/28,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously) or an every-4-week schedule (4,640 mg amivantamab/58,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously). For patients weighing less than 80 kg, decrease the amivantamab; hyaluronidase dose to 1,600 mg amivantamab/20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks, and then every 2 weeks beginning on day 1 of week 5; alternatively, beginning on day 1 of week 5 administer 3,520 mg amivantamab/44,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 4 weeks. Administer recommended premedications including venous thromboembolic event (VTE) prophylaxis prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Give lazertinib at any time prior to amivantamab when given on the same day. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. Treatment with lazertinib and IV amivantamab significantly improved median overall survival (not reached vs. 36.7 months) and median progression-free survival compared with osimertinib (23.7 months vs. 16.6 months) in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with either exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations in a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 clinical trial (MARIPOSA); the overall response rate was 78% versus 73% (complete response [CR], 5.4% vs. 3.5%) for a median response of 25.8 months versus 16.7 months, respectively. A similar percentage of patients had a duration of response of at least 6 months after treatment with lazertinib/amivantamab and osimertinib (86% vs. 85%); the duration of response was at least 12 months in 68% of patients in the lazertinib arm compared with 57% of those in the osimertinib arm.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Pregnancy should be avoided by females of reproductive potential during lazertinib treatment and for at least 3 weeks after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled studies in pregnant women, lazertinib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. Women who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving lazertinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Administration to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in reduced embryofetal survival and fetal body weights at exposures approximately 4 times the human exposure at the recommended dose; exposures of 0.5 times human exposure at the recommended dose resulted in fetal skeletal malformations in the vertebra and skull (fused maxillary process/zygomatic arch) when administered to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use lazertinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with lazertinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt lazertinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, infertility, male-mediated teratogenicity, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during lazertinib treatment. Lazertinib can be teratogenic if taken by the mother during pregnancy. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for 3 weeks after the last dose of lazertinib. Females of reproductive potential should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of lazertinib. Women who become pregnant while receiving lazertinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, males with female partners of reproductive potential should also use effective contraception during and for 3 weeks after treatment. Although there are no data regarding the effect of lazertinib on human fertility, male and female infertility has been observed in animal studies. The effects on female fertility were reversible, but the effects on male testes in animal studies were not reversible within a 2-week recovery period.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from lazertinib, advise women to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and for 3 weeks after the final dose. It is not known whether lazertinib is present in human milk, although many drugs are excreted in human milk.
    Headline
    contact lenses, dry eye disease, keratitis
    General Information
    Use lazertinib with caution in patients with a history of keratitis, ulcerative keratitis, or severe dry eye disease. Keratitis has occurred in patients treated with lazertinib; patients who wear contact lenses are also at increased risk. Patients who develop an onset of new eye symptoms or visual disturbance such as ocular pain, inflammation, lacrimation, light sensitivity, blurred vision, and/or red eye should be evaluated and managed appropriately; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Pregnancy should be avoided by females of reproductive potential during lazertinib treatment and for at least 3 weeks after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled studies in pregnant women, lazertinib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. Women who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving lazertinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Administration to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in reduced embryofetal survival and fetal body weights at exposures approximately 4 times the human exposure at the recommended dose; exposures of 0.5 times human exposure at the recommended dose resulted in fetal skeletal malformations in the vertebra and skull (fused maxillary process/zygomatic arch) when administered to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during lazertinib treatment. Lazertinib can be teratogenic if taken by the mother during pregnancy. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for 3 weeks after the last dose of lazertinib. Females of reproductive potential should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of lazertinib. Women who become pregnant while receiving lazertinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, males with female partners of reproductive potential should also use effective contraception during and for 3 weeks after treatment. Although there are no data regarding the effect of lazertinib on human fertility, male and female infertility has been observed in animal studies. The effects on female fertility were reversible, but the effects on male testes in animal studies were not reversible within a 2-week recovery period.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with lazertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. If lazertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with lazertinib may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lazertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. If lazertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If lazertinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. If lazertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If lazertinib is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with lazertinib due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and lazertinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with lazertinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of lazertinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus lazertinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. If lazertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If lazertinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lazertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and lazertinib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when lazertinib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping lazertinib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If lazertinib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and lazertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and lazertinib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when lazertinib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping lazertinib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If lazertinib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and lazertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase carbamazepine concentrations. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of lazertinib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lazertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and lazertinib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with lazertinib and monitor for adverse reactions. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A; lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lazertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lazertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If lazertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); lazertinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with lazertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with lazertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with lazertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lazertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lazertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lazertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and lazertinib is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lazertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lazertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lazertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and lazertinib should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. If lazertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If lazertinib is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or lazertinib; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including lazertinib, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and lazertinib as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of BCRP and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lazertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lazertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lazertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lazertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with lazertinib as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and lazertinib; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing lazertinib. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase mefloquine exposure and mefloquine-related adverse events. Mefloquine is a substrate of CYP3A and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. If lazertinib is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with lazertinib can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. If lazertinib is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with lazertinib can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and lazertinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with lazertinib. Concurrent use may lead to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase midazolam overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of lazertinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with lazertinib due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. If lazertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If lazertinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and lazertinib due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a BCRP substrate; lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit BCRP.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and lazertinib. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate, and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with lazertinib; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and lazertinib with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to reduce lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with lazertinib. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with lazertinib. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of lazertinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if lazertinib must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. If lazertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like lazertinib can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If lazertinib is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lazertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lazertinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; lazertinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of lazertinib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of lazertinib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with lazertinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with lazertinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP and CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with lazertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism, thrombosis
    General Information
    Venous thromboembolism (VTE) occurred in 36% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 10.5%); serious and fatal cases of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) occurred. The majority of thromboembolic events occurred during the first 4 months of therapy with a median time to onset of 84 days. While prophylactic anticoagulation is required during this time, VTEs occurred in 1.2% of patients on-study while receiving anticoagulation therapy. Monitor for signs and symptoms of VTE and treat as medically appropriate; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thromboembolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Interstitial lung disease (ILD) and pneumonitis occurred in 3.1% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a phase 3 clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 1.2%; grade 5, 0.2%); cough (19%) and dyspnea (14%; grade 3 or 4, 1.7%) were also reported in these patients. Monitor patients for new or worsening symptoms that may be indicative of ILD/pneumonitis, including dyspnea, cough, or fever. Immediately interrupt therapy with lazertinib and amivantamab in patients with suspected ILD/pneumonitis; permanently discontinue therapy if ILD/pneumonitis is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acneiform rash, pruritus, rash, xerosis
    General Information
    Rash occurred in 86% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3, 26%); the median time to onset was 14 days. Nail toxicity (71%; grade 3 or 4, 11%), xerosis (25%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), pruritus (24%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%), and acneiform rash were also reported. Administer supportive care including topical corticosteroids and topical and/or oral antibiotics if skin reactions develop; add oral steroids and consider a dermatologic consultation for grade 3 reactions. Promptly refer patients presenting with severe rash, atypical appearance or distribution, or lack of improvement within 2 weeks to a dermatologist. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity of the reaction.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    keratitis, ocular toxicity
    General Information
    Ocular toxicity occurred in 16% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%); keratitis has also been reported. Promptly refer any patients with new or worsening eye symptoms to an ophthalmologist; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      keratitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ocular toxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain was reported in 47% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 2.1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, hemorrhoids, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    Stomatitis (43%; grade 3 or 4, 2.4%), diarrhea (31%; grade 3 or 4, 2.6%), constipation (29%), nausea (21%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2%), vomiting (12%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%), abdominal pain (11%), and hemorrhoids (10%; grade 3 or 4, 0.2%) were reported in patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemorrhoids
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema
    General Information
    Edema was reported in 43% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 2.6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue was reported in 32% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 3.8%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever was reported in 12% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bleeding
    General Information
    Bleeding/hemorrhage was reported in 25% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    paresthesias
    General Information
    Paresthesias were reported in 35% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 1.7%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    Dizziness (14%) and headache (13%; grade 3 or 4, 0.2%) were reported in patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia
    General Information
    Decreased appetite/anorexia was reported in 24% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    insomnia
    General Information
    Insomnia was reported in 10% of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    conjunctivitis, infection
    General Information
    Infection was reported in patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial including COVID-19 (26%; grade 3 or 4, 1.7%) and conjunctivitis (11%; grade 3 or 4, 0.2%); serious cases of pneumonia occurred in 4% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Hypoalbuminemia has been reported in patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial, with 89% of patients reporting decreased albumin levels from baseline (grade 3 or 4, 8%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Severe hepatotoxicity (including increased ALT and AST) can occur in patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab. Hepatotoxicity occurred in 49% (grade 3 or 4, 9.8%) of patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in the MARIPOSA trial. Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (65%; grade 3 or 4, 7%), increased AST (52%; grade 3 or 4, 2.8%), increased alkaline phosphatase (45%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%), and increased GGT (39%; grade 3 or 4, 2.6%) have been reported in patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in the same trial. If hepatotoxicity occurs, an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypermagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia
    General Information
    Hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypermagnesemia have been reported in patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial including decreases from baseline in corrected calcium (41%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4%), sodium (38%; grade 3 or 4, 7%), potassium (30%; grade 3 or 4, 5%), and magnesium (25%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%) as well as increases from baseline in magnesium (12%; grade 3 or 4, 2.6%). An increase in creatinine was also reported in 26% of these patients and was severe (grade 3 or 4) in 0.7% of patients).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypermagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Thrombocytopenia, anemia, leukopenia, and neutropenia have been reported in patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a randomized clinical trial including decreases from baseline in platelets (52%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), hemoglobin (47%; grade 3 or 4, 3.8%), leukocytes (38%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), and neutrophils (15%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pleural effusion
    General Information
    Pleural effusion occurred in 2.1% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab in a phase 3 clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Lazertinib is an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations, in combination with amivantamab. Treatment with lazertinib plus amivantamab may result in severe cases of venous thromboembolism; patients should receive concomitant anticoagulation for the first 4 months of therapy. Lazertinib was approved by the FDA in August 2024.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Lazertinib is a kinase inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) that inhibits EGFR exon 19 deletions and exon 21 L858R substitution mutations at lower concentrations than wild-type EGFR. Lazertinib demonstrated antitumor activity in human NSCLC cells and mouse xenograft models of EGFR exon 19 deletions or EGFR L858R substitution mutations. Treatment with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab increased in vivo antitumor activity compared to either agent alone in a mouse xenograft model of human NSCLC with an EGFR L858R mutation.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The Cmax and AUC of lazertinib increased in a dose proportional manner from 20 mg to 320 mg after both a single dose and once daily administration; the median time to reach Cmax (Tmax) ranges from 2 to 4 hours. Steady-state plasma exposure was achieved by day 15 with approximately 2-fold accumulation for AUC. The exposure-response relationship and time-course of pharmacodynamic response of lazertinib have not been fully characterized. Administration with a high-fat meal (800 to 1,000 kcal, approximately 50% fat) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lazertinib compared to fasting conditions.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Baseline transaminase levels and mild (total bilirubin 1.5 times the upper limit of normal [ULN] or less with AST greater than ULN) to moderate (total bilirubin 1.5 to 3 times ULN and any AST) hepatic impairment did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lazertinib. The effect of severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN and any AST) on the pharmacokinetics of lazertinib has not been studied.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Baseline creatinine clearance and mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min by CKD-EPI equation) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lazertinib. The effect of severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease (eGFR less than 15 mL/min) on the pharmacokinetics of lazertinib has not been studied.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (21 to 88 years) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lazertinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lazertinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (White, Asian, Black or African American) or ethnicity (Hispanic/Latino or Non-Hispanic/Latino) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lazertinib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (28 kg to 122 kg) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lazertinib.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Baseline albumin levels, ECOG performance status, EGFR mutation type, initial diagnosis cancer stage, prior therapies, brain metastasis, and smoking history did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lazertinib.
 
GSTM1 Genotype
Patients with at least 1 GSTM1 normal-function allele have 44% lower systemic levels of lazertinib compared with those with the 2 GSTM1 no-function alleles (i.e., no enzyme activity); no clinically significant differences in safety or efficacy were observed as a function of GSTM1 genotype in patients treated with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab.
  Text
  Lazertinib is administered orally. It is approximately 99.2% bound to human plasma proteins and the mean apparent volume of distribution is 2,680 liters (CV, 51%). Lazertinib has a mean terminal half-life of 3.7 days (CV, 56%); the mean apparent clearance is 36.4 liters/hour (CV, 47%). Approximately 86% of a single radiolabeled dose of lazertinib was recovered in feces (less than 5% as unchanged drug) and 4% in the urine (less than 0.2% as unchanged drug).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, BCRP
Lazertinib is primarily metabolized by glutathione conjugation (enzymatic via glutathione S-transferase [GST] or nonenzymatic) and CYP3A4. While it should not be administered with moderate or strong CYP3A inducers, it may be given with strong CYP3A inhibitors as concomitant use of itraconazole had only a weak effect on the Cmax (1.2-fold increase) and AUC (1.5-fold increase) of lazertinib. Lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor as well as a BCRP inhibitor in vivo, while in vitro it additionally inhibits UGT1A1 and OCT1.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Low
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis if needed prior to treatment.
Prophylactic and Concomitant Medications
Administer prophylactic anticoagulation for the first 4 months of treatment on lazertinib. If there are no signs or symptoms of venous thromboembolism during this time, consider discontinuation of the anticoagulant.
Starting on Day 1 and for the first 12 weeks of treatment, administer an oral antibiotic (doxycycline or minocycline, 100 mg PO twice daily).
After completion of oral antibiotic, administer antibiotic lotion to the scalp (clindamycin 1% topical lotion once daily) for the next 9 months of treatment.
Wash hands and feet with 4% chlorhexidine solution once daily.
Patient Counseling
Administer non-comedogenic skin moisturizer (ceramide-based or other formulations that provide long-lasting skin hydration and exclude drying agents) on the face and whole body, except scalp.
Instruct patients to limit sun exposure during and for 2 months after treatment with lazertinib in combination with amivantamab. Advise patients to wear protective clothing and use broad-spectrum UVA/UVB sunscreen.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer lazertinib with or without food.
Administer the tablets whole; do not crush, split, or chew lazertinib tablets.
A missed dose may be given if it is less than 12 hours late. If it is more than 12 hours late, skip the missed dose and administer the next dose at the regular time.
If a patient vomits, do not replace the dose. Administer the next dose at the regular time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    240 mg PO daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    240 mg PO daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy are not established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy are not established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy are not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin up to 3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN] and any AST): No dosage adjustments recommended.
Severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN and any AST): Lazertinib has not been studied in this population.
Treatment Related Hepatoxicity
Grade 3 or 4: Hold both lazertinib and amivantamab. When the toxicity resolves to grade 1 or less or baseline, resume both lazertinib and amivantamab at a reduced dose or resume lazertinib alone. If recovery does not occur within 4 weeks, consider permanent discontinuation of lazertinib and amivantamab.
  Renal Impairment
  Baseline Renal Impairment
Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min): No dosage adjustments recommended.
Severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min): Lazertinib has not been studied in this population.
