=== Serdexmethylphenidate/Dexmethylphenidate (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5317)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant approved for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults and pediatric patients 6 years and older.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, bullous rash, exfoliative dermatitis, pruritus, rash, urticaria, physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance, withdrawal, leukopenia, pancytopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia, angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, stroke, supraventricular tachycardia (svt), blurred vision, diplopia, mydriasis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. It is also contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate. substance abuse disorder Central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, such as serdexmethylphenidate...

Brand Names
  - AZSTARYS

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        39.2 mg serdexmethylphenidate/7.8 mg dexmethylphenidate once daily in the morning, initially. May increase the dose to 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate; 10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate PO once daily after 1 week based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate/day. Reduce dose or, if necessary, discontinue therapy if paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a 1-month period, discontinue therapy. For patients switching from other methylphenidate products, discontinue that treatment and titrate using the titration schedule. Do not substitute serdexmethylphenidate/dexmethylphenidate for other methylphenidate products on a milligram-per-milligram basis because of different methylphenidate base compositions and differing pharmacokinetic profiles.
        Heading
        Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        39.2 mg serdexmethylphenidate/7.8 mg dexmethylphenidate once daily in the morning, initially. May increase the dose to 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate; 10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate PO once daily after 1 week based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate/day. Reduce dose or, if necessary, discontinue therapy if paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a 1-month period, discontinue therapy. For patients switching from other methylphenidate products, discontinue that treatment and titrate using the titration schedule. Do not substitute serdexmethylphenidate/dexmethylphenidate for other methylphenidate products on a milligram-per-milligram basis because of different methylphenidate base compositions and differing pharmacokinetic profiles.
        Heading
        Children 6 to 12 years
        Dosage Description
        39.2 mg serdexmethylphenidate/7.8 mg dexmethylphenidate once daily in the morning, initially. May increase the dose to 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate; 10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate PO once daily or reduce dose to 26.1 mg serdexmethylphenidate/5.2 mg dexmethylphenidate after 1 week based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate/day. Reduce dose or, if necessary, discontinue therapy if paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a 1-month period, discontinue therapy. For patients switching from other methylphenidate products, discontinue that treatment and titrate using the titration schedule. Do not substitute serdexmethylphenidate/dexmethylphenidate for other methylphenidate products on a milligram-per-milligram basis because of different methylphenidate base compositions and differing pharmacokinetic profiles.
    Heading
    For the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. It is also contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    Central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, such as serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate, have a high potential for abuse and misuse, which can lead to the development of a substance abuse disorder, including addiction. Caution is recommended in individuals with a known history of substance abuse, including alcoholism. Assess each individual's risk for abuse, misuse, or addiction before prescribing a CNS stimulant, and monitor for the development of these behaviors or conditions throughout treatment. Children and adolescents with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are more prone to substance abuse compared to those without ADHD, and those with co-occurring mental health conditions (e.g., depression, disruptive behavior disorders) are at even greater risk; however, appropriate treatment of ADHD with medication and behavior therapy may reduce the risk of developing a substance abuse disorder. Prescribing and dispensing the smallest appropriate quantity may help to minimize abuse, misuse, and overdosage. CNS stimulants can be diverted for non-medical use into illicit channels or distribution. The most common source of non-medical use is sharing from family or friends with misuse of the patient's own prescription or obtaining from illicit channels occurring less frequently. Sharing of CNS stimulant medications can lead to substance abuse disorder and addiction in those they are shared with. Misuse and abuse of CNS stimulants can result in potential for overdose or poisoning and death; the risk is increased with higher doses or unapproved methods of administration, such as snorting or injection. Educate individuals and their families about these risks, proper storage, and proper disposal of any unused medication. Misuse or abuse may cause increased heart rate, respiratory rate, or blood pressure; sweating; dilated pupils; hyperactivity; restlessness; insomnia; decreased appetite; loss of coordination; tremors; flushed skin; vomiting; and/or abdominal pain. Anxiety, psychosis, hostility, aggression, and suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed with stimulant abuse or misuse.
    Headline
    tics, Tourette's syndrome
    General Information
    CNS stimulants, including serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate products, have been associated with the onset or exacerbation of motor and verbal tics. Worsening of Tourette syndrome has also been reported. Prior to initiating serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate, carefully assess family history and clinically evaluate individuals for motor or verbal tics or Tourette syndrome. Regularly monitor serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate-treated individuals for the emergence or worsening of tics or Tourette syndrome and discontinue treatment if clinically appropriate.
    Headline
    mood disorder, psychotic disorder, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    CNS stimulants should be used with caution in those with bipolar disorder or a pre-existing psychotic disorder (e.g., schizophrenia). CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in individuals with pre-existing psychosis. These medications can also induce mania or a mixed episode in individuals with bipolar disorder. Prior to initiating treatment with serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate, screen individuals for risk factors for bipolar disorder or developing an episode of mania (e.g., mood disorder, comorbid or history of depressive symptoms or a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, or depression). At recommended doses, CNS stimulants may also cause psychotic or manic symptoms (such as hallucinations, delusions, or mania) in individuals without a prior history of psychosis or mania. Advise individuals and their caregivers to promptly report suicidal ideation or any changes in mood or behavior and consider discontinuing treatment if these symptoms occur.
    Headline
    cardiac disease, family history of sudden cardiac death
    General Information
    Sudden death has been reported in individuals with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious cardiac disease who were treated with CNS stimulants at the recommended ADHD dosages. Avoid use of CNS stimulants in individuals with known structural cardiac abnormalities, cardiomyopathy, serious cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, or other serious cardiac disease. Prior to initiating any CNS stimulant, carefully assess patient for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful patient history, assess for any family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and complete a physical exam) and counsel individuals to report symptoms of cardiac disease (i.e., exertional chest pain, unexplained syncope) immediately. Although it is reasonable for a health care provider to obtain an ECG as part of the cardiovascular evaluation, it is not mandatory. Treatment with stimulant products should not be withheld because an ECG is not performed. However, any patient with significant findings on physical examination, ECG, or from patient or family history (such as known congenital heart disease, structural heart disease, arrhythmias, or a family history of sudden cardiac death in members younger than 35 years of age) should be referred for consultation with a pediatric cardiologist prior to starting the stimulant medication. Overall, studies have not shown an association between the use of ADHD medications and adverse cardiovascular events; however, long-term cardiovascular risks associated with ADHD medications are unknown. CNS stimulant medications, including serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate, can cause an increase in blood pressure (mean increase approximately 2 to 4 mmHg) and heart rate (mean increase approximately 3 to 6 beats per minute). Some individuals may have larger increases. Monitor all individuals receiving serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate for hypertension and tachycardia. Careful monitoring should be performed after initiation of stimulant medications; if any abnormal findings or arrhythmias are diagnosed during treatment, consider discontinuation of the stimulant.
    Headline
    children
    General Information
    Due to higher medication exposure and increased adverse reactions in children younger than 6 years, the benefits of serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate may not outweigh the risks in this age group. An FDA analysis reported children younger than 6 years receiving extended-release stimulants have higher adverse reaction rates, particularly significant weight loss, compared to older children on the same dose. For children younger than 6 years who experience weight loss or other adverse reactions while receiving extended-release stimulants, consider discontinuing the medication or switching to an alternative, such as an immediate-release stimulant. Monitor growth and development and provide necessary interventions to minimize weight loss.
    Headline
    peripheral vasoconstriction or ischemia
    General Information
    Stimulant medications, such as serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate, are associated with peripheral vasoconstriction or ischemia, including Raynaud phenomenon. Worsening of peripheral vascular disease is possible. Effects on circulation have been observed with therapeutic doses at different times throughout therapy in all age groups. Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild, and generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of the drug. However, very rare sequelae include digital skin ulcer and/or soft tissue breakdown. Carefully monitor all individuals for digital changes during treatment with stimulant medications, especially those with pre-existing circulation problems. Instruct individuals to seek immediate medical attention if any new digital numbness, pain, skin discoloration, or temperature sensitivity occur, or if unexplained wounds appear on their fingers or toes. Further clinical evaluation (e.g., rheumatology referral) may be appropriate for certain individuals.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Serdexmethylphenidate is a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate, and dexmethylphenidate is the d-threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate. Published studies and postmarketing reports on the use of methylphenidate during pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse pregnancy outcomes. However, there may be risks to the fetus associated with the use of CNS stimulants during pregnancy. CNS stimulants can cause vasoconstriction, and thereby decrease placental perfusion. Several cohort studies have reported an increased risk of spontaneous abortion, pre-eclampsia, preterm birth, and perinatal complications associated with the use of methylphenidate during pregnancy, while other studies have also shown an increase in these complications in patients with ADHD not taking medication. Methylphenidate has also been associated with a small increased risk of cardiac malformations in some studies, while other studies have shown no increase in risk after controlling for concomitant medications and medical comorbidities. No fetal and/or neonatal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of therapeutic doses of methylphenidate during pregnancy; however, premature delivery and low birth weight infants have been reported in amphetamine-dependent pregnant patients. Care teams are encouraged to register patients in the National Pregnancy Registry for ADHD Medications at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/postpregnancy/ad-hd-medications/ or by calling 1-866-961-2388. Non-prescribed use of stimulants during pregnancy is not recommended because of associated maternal and fetal harm. Neonates of patients with stimulant use disorder may experience withdrawal after delivery, which may present as feeding difficulty, irritability, agitation, and excessive drowsiness.
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate should be used cautiously in individuals at risk of glaucoma. Increased intraocular pressure (IOP) and angle closure glaucoma have been reported in association with serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate treatment. While the mechanism is not clear, serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate-treated individuals considered at risk for acute angle closure glaucoma (e.g. individuals with significant hyperopia) should be evaluated by an ophthalmologist. Individuals with a history of open-angle glaucoma or abnormally increased IOP should only receive serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate if the benefit of treatment outweighs the risk. These individuals should be monitored closely for changes in vision. Visual disturbance has been reported with the use of serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate and may present as difficulties with accommodation and blurring of vision.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate with caution during breast-feeding. Serdexmethylphenidate is a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate, and dexmethylphenidate is the d-threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate. Methylphenidate is present in human milk. Based on data from milk samples from 7 lactating patients, the relative infant dose is 0.16% to 0.7% and the milk-to-plasma ratio is 1.1 to 2.7. There have been no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed child or effects on milk production. If serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate is taken during lactation, monitor the breastfed child for adverse reactions, including decreased appetite, reduced weight gain, insomnia, and agitation. The effect of stimulant medication exposure via human milk on long-term neurological development is unknown. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Serdexmethylphenidate is a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate, and dexmethylphenidate is the d-threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate. Published studies and postmarketing reports on the use of methylphenidate during pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse pregnancy outcomes. However, there may be risks to the fetus associated with the use of CNS stimulants during pregnancy. CNS stimulants can cause vasoconstriction, and thereby decrease placental perfusion. Several cohort studies have reported an increased risk of spontaneous abortion, pre-eclampsia, preterm birth, and perinatal complications associated with the use of methylphenidate during pregnancy, while other studies have also shown an increase in these complications in patients with ADHD not taking medication. Methylphenidate has also been associated with a small increased risk of cardiac malformations in some studies, while other studies have shown no increase in risk after controlling for concomitant medications and medical comorbidities. No fetal and/or neonatal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of therapeutic doses of methylphenidate during pregnancy; however, premature delivery and low birth weight infants have been reported in amphetamine-dependent pregnant patients. Care teams are encouraged to register patients in the National Pregnancy Registry for ADHD Medications at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/postpregnancy/ad-hd-medications/ or by calling 1-866-961-2388. Non-prescribed use of stimulants during pregnancy is not recommended because of associated maternal and fetal harm. Neonates of patients with stimulant use disorder may experience withdrawal after delivery, which may present as feeding difficulty, irritability, agitation, and excessive drowsiness.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate with caution during breast-feeding. Serdexmethylphenidate is a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate, and dexmethylphenidate is the d-threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate. Methylphenidate is present in human milk. Based on data from milk samples from 7 lactating patients, the relative infant dose is 0.16% to 0.7% and the milk-to-plasma ratio is 1.1 to 2.7. There have been no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed child or effects on milk production. If serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate is taken during lactation, monitor the breastfed child for adverse reactions, including decreased appetite, reduced weight gain, insomnia, and agitation. The effect of stimulant medication exposure via human milk on long-term neurological development is unknown. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of dihydrocodeine and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering alfentanil with methylphenidate derivatives. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including aliskiren. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including aliskiren. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Use of amantadine with methylphenidate derivatives, which are CNS stimulants, requires careful observation. Coadministration may increase the risk of stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias.
Ambrisentan: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Amifampridine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with methylphenidate derivatives and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Methylphenidate derivatives may increase the risk of seizures.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives and amoxapine may lower the seizure threshold; therefore, caution is particularly advisable when this combination is administered to patients susceptible to seizures. In addition, methylphenidate is thought to exert some of its beneficial effects through dopamine re-uptake blockade while amoxapine has central dopamine antagonist properties. In theory, the therapeutic effects of either agent may be reduced.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Angiotensin II: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Armodafinil: (Major) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including methylphenidate derivatives, has not been studied. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and methylphenidate derivatives may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and methylphenidate increases central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and methylphenidate use; a loop diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including methylphenidate. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including methylphenidate. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Moderate) The stimulant effects of methylphenidate derivatives can be additive when used concurrently with other psychostimulants, such as sodium oxybate. The combination may increase the incidence of side effects; if these combinations cannot be avoided the patient should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related problems. Sodium oxybate has the potential to induce seizures; it has been speculated that this effect may be mediated through the action of sodium oxybate at GABA receptors. Although convulsant effects occur primarily at high dosages, sodium oxybate should be used cautiously with psychostimulants that are known to lower seizure threshold. Note that CNS stimulants, including methylphenidate, are frequently used in the treatment of narcolepsy, and clinical trials involving the use of psychostimulants with sodium oxybate have not found the combinations to be unsafe. Pharmacodynamic interactions cannot be ruled out, however.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Captopril: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate and its derivatives, may lower the seizure threshold, thereby reducing the efficacy of anticonvulsants such as carbamazepine. There are rare case reports of reduced methylphenidate concentrations occurring during the use of carbamazepine concurrently. The mechanism of the interaction is not clear as methylphenidate is metabolized primarily to ritalinic acid by nonmicrosomal hydrolytic esterases that are widely distributed throughout the body. Interactions with other potent enzyme inducers have not been reported. Monitor for any changes in therapeutic effectiveness of either drug.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tramadol and methylphenidate derivatives might increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. There are also postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate or methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of some SSRIs and downward dose adjustment of the SSRI may be required in some patients. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant clonidine and methylphenidate use; a clonidine dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
COMT inhibitors: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Desflurane: (Major) Avoid the use of methylphenidate or its derivatives in patients being treated with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) on the day of surgery. The use of Metadate CD is contraindicated on the day of surgery. Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the cardiovascular system to the effects of methylphenidate increasing the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. There is also a case of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reaction occurring in a child on chronic methylphenidate therapy after ingesting methylphenidate with an SNRI. It is unclear if the reaction was the result of a drug interaction. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including methylphenidate. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
dopamine agonists: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm.
Droxidopa: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. There is also a case of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reaction occurring in a child on chronic methylphenidate therapy after ingesting methylphenidate with an SNRI. It is unclear if the reaction was the result of a drug interaction. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Entacapone: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as eplerenone.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of some SSRIs and downward dose adjustment of the SSRI may be required in some patients. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and methylphenidate or its derivatives. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as methylphenidates, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and methylphenidate use; a loop diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and methylphenidate derivatives with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) If concomitant use of fentanyl and methylphenidate or its derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of some SSRIs and downward dose adjustment of the SSRI may be required in some patients. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of some SSRIs and downward dose adjustment of the SSRI may be required in some patients. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and methylphenidate use; a loop diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and methylphenidate is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate and its derivatives, may increase blood pressure and reduce the antihypertensive effects of antihypertensive agents, such as guanfacine. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate periodically when prescribed together. Guanfacine may be used adjunctively to methylphenidate and its derivatives in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Pharmacokinetic studies reveal that guanfacine does not influence methylphenidate pharmacokinetics and methylphenidate does not affect guanfacine pharmacokinetics. No dosage adjustments are required when used together. Patients should be monitored for heart rate, blood pressure, and for sedation during ADHD treatment.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Avoid the use of methylphenidate or its derivatives in patients being treated with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) on the day of surgery. The use of Metadate CD is contraindicated on the day of surgery. Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the cardiovascular system to the effects of methylphenidate increasing the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydromorphone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and methylphenidate derivatives may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and methylphenidate increases central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as indapamide. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Iodixanol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ioflupane I 123: (Major) Hold methylphenidate and methylphenidate derivatives for 7 days, or at least 5 medication half-lives, prior to performing dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging with radiolabeled ioflupane. Methylphenidate binds to the dopamine transporter which may interfere with striatal tracer binding and increase the risk for a false-positive scan.
Iohexol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iopromide: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ioversol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Isoflurane: (Major) Avoid the use of methylphenidate or its derivatives in patients being treated with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) on the day of surgery. The use of Metadate CD is contraindicated on the day of surgery. Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the cardiovascular system to the effects of methylphenidate increasing the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when ketamine and methylphenidate derivatives are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Methylphenidate derivatives may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and methylphenidate derivatives. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. There is also a case of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reaction occurring in a child on chronic methylphenidate therapy after ingesting methylphenidate with an SNRI. It is unclear if the reaction was the result of a drug interaction. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of levorphanol and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Major) Psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate derivatives, exhibit sympathomimetic actions and should be avoided with other drugs, such as linezolid, that enhance the pressor response of sympathomimetic agents. A clinically significant rise in systolic blood pressure is possible. In addition, serotonin syndrome has been reported during the concurrent use of linezolid, a non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), and medications that enhance central serotonergic activity. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) is the enzyme responsible for the degradation of norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome, particularly during lithium initiation, during concomitant methylphenidate use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of lithium and/or methylphenidate.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and methylphenidate use; a loop diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Losartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Meperidine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of meperidine and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Methadone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of methadone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and methylphenidate derivatives may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and methylphenidate increases central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including methyldopa. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Methylene Blue: (Moderate) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and methylphenidate derivatives may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and methylphenidate increases central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Methylphenidate: (Contraindicated) Avoid coadministration of methylphenidate and serdexmethylphenidate. These drugs represent duplicate treatments. Serious side effects such as nervousness, irritability, arrhythmias, palpitations, seizures, or other stimulant-related adverse effects may occur or get worse during concurrent use.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) In theory, metoclopramide and methylphenidate derivatives may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for loss of effectiveness of either agent. Methylphenidate derivatives blocks central dopamine reuptake, which increases central dopaminergic functioning, while metoclopramide is a dopamine antagonist.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. There is also a case of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reaction occurring in a child on chronic methylphenidate therapy after ingesting methylphenidate with an SNRI. It is unclear if the reaction was the result of a drug interaction. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylphenidate derivatives and mirtazapine.
Modafinil: (Major) The use of modafinil with other psychostimulants, including methylphenidate or its derivatives, has not been extensively studied. Patients receiving combination therapy of modafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other CNS stimulant-related side effects. Single dose studies of methylphenidate combined with modafinil noted that the rate of absorption of modafinil was delayed up to one hour by the presence of methylphenidate; no changes occurred in the metabolism and extent of absorption of either medication.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Morphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of morphine and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of nalbuphine and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylphenidate derivatives and nefazodone. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of some SSRIs and downward dose adjustment of the SSRI may be required in some patients. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Opicapone: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxymorphone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of some SSRIs and downward dose adjustment of the SSRI may be required in some patients. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate derivatives, may lower the seizure threshold, thereby reducing the efficacy of anticonvulsants such as phenobarbital. Some human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of phenobarbital. More frequent monitoring of phenobarbital concentrations may be required when initiating or discontinuing methylphenidate. The mechanism of the potential effect on phenobarbital concentrations is not clear; methylphenidate is metabolized primarily to ritalinic acid by nonmicrosomal hydrolytic esterases that are widely distributed throughout the body, and appears to have no known inhibitory effect on hepatic enzymes.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate derivatives, may lower the seizure threshold, thereby reducing the efficacy of anticonvulsants such as phenobarbital. Some human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of phenobarbital. More frequent monitoring of phenobarbital concentrations may be required when initiating or discontinuing methylphenidate. The mechanism of the potential effect on phenobarbital concentrations is not clear; methylphenidate is metabolized primarily to ritalinic acid by nonmicrosomal hydrolytic esterases that are widely distributed throughout the body, and appears to have no known inhibitory effect on hepatic enzymes.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Pimozide: (Major) Pimozide should not be used in patients taking medicines that may, themselves, cause motor and phonic tics (e.g., methylphenidate) until such patients have been withdrawn from these drugs to determine whether or not the drugs, rather than Tourette's Disorder, are responsible for the tics. Once this issue is excluded, use together may proceed with caution.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Primidone: (Moderate) Psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate derivatives, may lower the seizure threshold, thereby reducing the efficacy of anticonvulsants such as primidone. Some human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of primidone, which is metabolized to phenobarbital. More frequent monitoring of drug concentrations may be required when initiating or discontinuing methylphenidate. The mechanism of the potential effect on primidone concentrations is not clear; methylphenidate is metabolized primarily to ritalinic acid by nonmicrosomal hydrolytic esterases that are widely distributed throughout the body, and appears to have no known inhibitory effect on hepatic enzymes.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering remifentanil with methylphenidate derivatives. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) with concomitant use of risperidone and methylphenidate derivatives. Postmarketing cases of extrapyramidal symptoms (dystonia and dyskinesia) have been reported in patients when there was a change in dosage of either medication (increase or decrease in dosage) as well as with the initiation or discontinuation of either or both medications.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with methylphenidate and its derivatives due to the risk of serotonin syndrome and hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as methylphenidate. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of some SSRIs and downward dose adjustment of the SSRI may be required in some patients. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) The product labels for methylphenidate and its derivatives contraindicate use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including selegiline, due to the risk of hypertensive crisis. Methylphenidate derivatives should not be used concurrently with selegiline or within 14 days before or after selegiline use.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. There is also a case of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reaction occurring in a child on chronic methylphenidate therapy after ingesting methylphenidate with an SNRI. It is unclear if the reaction was the result of a drug interaction. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of some SSRIs and downward dose adjustment of the SSRI may be required in some patients. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Avoid the use of methylphenidate or its derivatives in patients being treated with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) on the day of surgery. The use of Metadate CD is contraindicated on the day of surgery. Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the cardiovascular system to the effects of methylphenidate increasing the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sodium Oxybate: (Moderate) The stimulant effects of methylphenidate derivatives can be additive when used concurrently with other psychostimulants, such as sodium oxybate. The combination may increase the incidence of side effects; if these combinations cannot be avoided the patient should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related problems. Sodium oxybate has the potential to induce seizures; it has been speculated that this effect may be mediated through the action of sodium oxybate at GABA receptors. Although convulsant effects occur primarily at high dosages, sodium oxybate should be used cautiously with psychostimulants that are known to lower seizure threshold. Note that CNS stimulants, including methylphenidate, are frequently used in the treatment of narcolepsy, and clinical trials involving the use of psychostimulants with sodium oxybate have not found the combinations to be unsafe. Pharmacodynamic interactions cannot be ruled out, however.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and methylphenidate derivatives, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and St. John's Wort. There are rare reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of other serotonergicagents and methylphenidate or its derivatives. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering sufentanil with methylphenidate derivatives. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tapentadol and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as indapamide. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Tolcapone: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and methylphenidate use; a loop diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tramadol and methylphenidate derivatives might increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. There are also postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate or methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tramadol and methylphenidate derivatives might increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. There are also postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate or methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome occurring during use of methylphenidate derivatives and other serotonergic medications. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Vasopressors: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. There is also a case of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reaction occurring in a child on chronic methylphenidate therapy after ingesting methylphenidate with an SNRI. It is unclear if the reaction was the result of a drug interaction. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylphenidate derivatives and vilazodone. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylphenidate derivatives and vortioxetine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Patients receiving methylphenidate derivatives with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Warfarin: (Moderate) A dose adjustment of warfarin and more frequent INR monitoring may be required when initiating or discontinuing methylphenidate derivatives. Case reports suggest a potential interaction between methylphenidate derivatives and coumarin anticoagulants. Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate derivatives may inhibit the metabolism of warfarin. The mechanism of the potential interaction is not clear. A dose adjustment of warfarin and more frequent monitoring of the INR may be required when initiating or discontinuing methylphenidate derivatives.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, bullous rash, exfoliative dermatitis, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Bronchospasm, rash, and pruritus have been reported in patients receiving serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate. Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema, anaphylactoid reactions, auricular swelling, bullous rash, exfoliative dermatitis, urticaria, pruritus NEC, rashes, eruptions, and exanthemas NEC have been reported in patients treated with other methylphenidate products.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    growth inhibition
    General Information
    Data are inadequate to determine whether chronic use of stimulants, such as serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate, causes long-term growth inhibition. Although data are limited, available studies do not indicate that stimulant use compromises the attainment of normal adult height and weight in most children. Monitor height and weight parameters relative to age at treatment initiation and periodically thereafter (at minimum yearly). Patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted. In a 24-month follow-up, the MultiModal Treatment Study showed a deceleration of growth of roughly 1 cm per year with stimulant use. In general, growth remained in the normal curve for most children, except those in the lowest percentiles of height for age. Data obtained on the effects of serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate on growth suppression in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age indicated that they, on average, had lower than expected increase in height and body weight compared to children of the same age and sex. Proposed mechanisms of growth inhibition include the suppression of appetite or an alteration in growth hormone secretion. Some experts recommend the use of drug holidays to allow growth to 'catch-up'. However, drug holidays are typically reserved for children with well-controlled attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms and are of unproved value in limiting growth suppression.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      growth inhibition
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance, withdrawal
    General Information
    Psychological dependence, physiological dependence, and tolerance may occur with serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate therapy. Abrupt discontinuation or a significant dose reduction of CNS stimulants after prolonged use may produce withdrawal symptoms that include dysphoria, depression, fatigue, vivid and unpleasant dreams, insomnia or hypersomnia, increased appetite, and psychomotor retardation or agitation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    leukopenia, pancytopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic abnormalities, including leukopenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, and thrombocytopenic purpura, were reported during postmarketing use of some formulations of methylphenidate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pancytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, stroke, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
    General Information
    Cardiovascular events, including sudden death, have been associated with stimulant use, such as serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate, in adult patients and pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems. Cardiovascular or cerebrovascular effects associated with dexmethylphenidate or methylphenidate use range in severity from mild to life-threatening and include cardiac murmur, palpitations, angina, chest pain (unspecified), cardiac arrhythmia (arrhythmia exacerbation), sinus tachycardia, bradycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), ventricular extrasystole, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction (reported in adults), stroke (reported in adults), and cerebral arteritis or occlusion. In general, stimulant medications at usual doses increase heart rate and blood pressure by an average of 3 to 6 bpm and 2 to 4 mmHg, respectively. In a nationwide self-controlled case series (n = 1,224), use of methylphenidate in children and adolescents was associated with an increased risk of arrhythmia during the first 8 weeks of therapy (incidence rate ratio [IRR] 1.61; 95% CI 1.48 to 1.74), with the highest risk observed within the first 3 days of treatment (IRR 2.01; 95% CI 1.74 to 2.31) and in those with congenital heart disease (IRR 3.49; 95% CI 2.33 to 5.22). Overall, no significant risk of myocardial infarction was observed, but risk was elevated after the first week of treatment through week 8.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    blurred vision, diplopia, mydriasis, visual impairment
    General Information
    Diplopia, mydriasis, visual impairment, and blurred vision were reported during postmarketing use of some formulations of methylphenidate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      mydriasis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Hepatocellular injury, acute hepatic failure, elevated alkaline phosphatase, hyperbilirubinemia, and elevated hepatic enzymes were reported during postmarketing use of some formulations of methylphenidate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, muscle cramps, myalgia, rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    Arthralgia, myalgia, muscle cramps, muscle twitching, and rhabdomyolysis were reported during postmarketing use of some formulations of methylphenidate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    fever, xerostomia
    General Information
    High fever (hyperpyrexia) and xerostomia were reported during postmarketing use of some formulations of methylphenidate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    drowsiness, dyskinesia, headache, seizures, serotonin syndrome, tics, Tourette's syndrome, tremor, vertigo
    General Information
    Seizures (including grand mal seizures), serotonin syndrome in combination with other serotonergic drugs, nervousness, headache, tremor, drowsiness, and vertigo have been reported during postmarketing use of methylphenidate-class products. Dyskinesia and the onset or exacerbation of motor and verbal tics have also been reported. Individuals should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of dyskinesias, tics, or Tourette syndrome; consider dose reduction or discontinuation of treatment if clinically indicated.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tics
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      Tourette syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    agitation, hallucinations, libido decrease, libido increase, mania, restlessness
    General Information
    Various psychiatric effects, including disorientation, libido increase or libido decrease, hallucinations, logorrhea, mania, restlessness, and agitation, have been reported during postmarketing use of some formulations of methylphenidate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    alopecia, erythema, hyperhidrosis
    General Information
    Alopecia, erythema, and hyperhidrosis have been reported during postmarketing use of some formulations of methylphenidate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    priapism
    General Information
    Frequent or prolonged erections and priapism, sometimes requiring surgical intervention, have been reported with methylphenidate products, such as serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate, in both adult and pediatric patients. Prolonged erections (more than 4 hours) in male patients should be promptly reported, as immediate diagnosis and treatment are essential to avoid tissue damage. Priapism can occur in males of any age; younger males, particularly those who have not reached puberty, may not recognize the problem or may be embarrassed to tell anyone if it occurs. In a review of methylphenidate products by the FDA, the median age of patients who experienced priapism was 12.5 years (range: 8 to 33 years). Reported cases of priapism did not occur with drug initiation, but have occurred after a period of time on stimulant therapy and often subsequent to a dose increase. Priapism has also been reported during periods of drug withdrawal (e.g., drug holidays or discontinuation). Use caution when considering changing male patients from stimulant to non-stimulant medications; atomoxetine is also associated with priapism in young males and appears to carry a higher risk of the condition compared to methylphenidate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    peripheral vasoconstriction, skin ulcer
    General Information
    Stimulants, such as serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate, are associated with peripheral vasculopathy. Effects of peripheral vasoconstriction, including Raynaud's phenomenon, were observed in postmarketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment. Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild and generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug. However, very rare sequelae include digital skin ulcer and/or soft tissue breakdown. Carefully monitor for digital changes during treatment with stimulant medications. Further clinical evaluation (e.g., rheumatology referral) may be appropriate for certain patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasoconstriction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      skin ulcer
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, weight loss
    General Information
    During clinical trials of methylphenidate products for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in pediatric and adult patients, gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions that occurred in at least 5% of patients receiving methylphenidate and with an incidence of at least twice that of patients in the placebo group included anorexia, weight loss, nausea, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, and vomiting. An FDA analysis reported children younger than 6 years receiving extended-release stimulants have higher medication exposure and significant weight loss (at least 10% decrease) compared to older children on the same dose. Due to these findings, the benefits may not outweigh the risks in this age group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anxiety, dizziness, emotional lability, insomnia, irritability
    General Information
    During clinical trials of methylphenidate products for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in pediatric and adult patients, adverse reactions that occurred in at least 5% of patients receiving methylphenidate and with an incidence of at least twice that of patients in the placebo group included insomnia, anxiety, emotional lability, irritability, and dizziness.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant approved for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults and pediatric patients 6 years and older. It consists of dexmethylphenidate, which is the d-threo enantiomer of d,l-methylphenidate and serdexmethylphenidate, which is a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate. Dexmethylphenidate is the pharmacologically active d-enantiomer of d,l-methylphenidate. Stimulant medications, such as serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate, are considered first-line agents in the treatment of ADHD. As a class, stimulants have been associated with sudden death, stroke, and myocardial infarction in adult patients receiving recommended doses and sudden death in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities receiving recommended doses; they should be avoided in patients with structural heart defects, cardiomyopathy, or heart-rhythm disturbances as these patients may be at risk for adverse cardiac events. The American Heart Association (AHA) recommends careful screening of all children and adolescents prior to initiating pharmacologic therapy for ADHD.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Serdexmethylphenidate is a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate is the d-threo enantiomer of d,l-methylphenidate, which is the more pharmacologically active enantiomer. Methylphenidate blocks the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the presynaptic neuron, increasing the release of these monoamines into the extraneuronal space. There is little to no binding of serdexmethylphenidate to monaminergic reuptake transporters. Dexmethylphenidate is a central nervous system stimulant. The mode of therapeutic action in ADHD is unknown.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Serdexmethylphenidate has an estimated absolute oral bioavailability of less than 3%. The Tmax of serdexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate is about 2 hours after a single serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate dose under fasted conditions. After oral administration of serdexmethylphenidate alone, dexmethylphenidate Tmax is about 8 hours. After a single dose of 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate; 10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate and 40 mg of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release, the mean Cmax of dexmethylphenidate is 14 ng/mL and 28.2 ng/mL, respectively. The AUC of dexmethylphenidate is 186 hour x ng/mL and 248 hour x ng/mL, respectively, after serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate administration. Approximate linear pharmacokinetics is demonstrated for dexmethylphenidate after single doses of 26.1 mg serdexmethylphenidate; 5.2 mg dexmethylphenidate to 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate; 10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate. Dexmethylphenidate steady-state is approached after the third once-daily dose. No accumulation of serdexmethylphenidate was observed after once-daily serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate administration.
Effects of food
Administration of serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate with food has no clinically meaningful difference on the exposure of dexmethylphenidate. The median time to Tmax is increased from 2 to 4 to 4.5 hours when given with food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate pharmacokinetic parameters have not been evaluated in the presence of hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate pharmacokinetic parameters have not been evaluated in the presence of renal impairment. Since little unchanged drug is excreted in the urine, renal insufficiency is not expected to appreciably alter the pharmacokinetic profile.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The shapes of the dexmethylphenidate plasma concentration time profiles are similar in pediatric patients (6 to 17 years of age) with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and healthy adults. After the same serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate dose, dexmethylphenidate exposure in patients 13 to 17 years of age and adults is about half of that in patients 6 to 12 years of age. When adjusted for dose and body weight, dexmethylphenidate plasma concentrations are similar across all age groups.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No significant pharmacokinetic differences have been observed for serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate based on gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    There is insufficient experience with serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate to determine ethnic variations in pharmacokinetic parameters.
  Text
  Serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate is administered orally. Plasma protein binding of serdexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate is approximately 56% and 47% respectively, at 5 microM (about 60-fold higher than the therapeutic concentrations at the highest recommended dose). Volume of distribution (Vd) for serdexmethylphenidate is approximately 29.3 L/kg; Vd for dexmethylphenidate is 2.65 L/kg after IV administration. Serdexmethylphenidate is a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate and is likely converted to dexmethylphenidate mainly in the lower gastrointestinal tract; enzymes involved in the conversion have not been identified. Dexmethylphenidate is primarily metabolized via de-esterification to d-alfa-phenyl-piperdine acetic acid (also known as d-ritalinic acid), which has little to no pharmacological activity. There is no in vivo interconversion to the l-threo-enantiomer. About 62% and 37% of the serdexmethylphenidate dose is recovered in urine and feces, respectively, with the metabolite ritalinic acid accounting for approximately 63% of the total recovered dose in urine and feces. Only small quantities (about 0.4% and 11%) of the dose of unchanged serdexmethylphenidate are eliminated in the urine and feces, respectively. Only small quantities (less than 0.5%) of unchanged methylphenidate are eliminated in the urine, most of the dose (90%) is renally excreted with the main urinary metabolite (d,l-ritalinic acid) accountable for approximately 80% of the dose. The mean elimination half-life of serdexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate in adults is about 5.7 and 11.7 hours, respectively, after a single dose of 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate; 10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate. The mean apparent clearance for serdexmethylphenidate was about 3.6 L/hour/kg after serdexmethylphenidate; dexmethylphenidate administration. Dexmethylphenidate was eliminated with a mean clearance of 0.4 L/hour/kg after IV administration.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none
Serdexmethylphenidate and methylphenidate do not appear to be substrates, inducers, or inhibitors of CYP1A2, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, or 3A. Serdexmethylphenidate does not appear to be a substrate or inhibitor of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1/3, OAT1/3, OCT2, or MATE1/2-K.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer once daily in the morning with or without food
May swallow whole or if swallowing is difficult, the capsule may be opened and the contents sprinkled into 50 mL of water or over 2 tablespoons of applesauce and swallowed. Prepare the sprinkle dose just prior to administration and consume immediately or within 10 minutes of mixing; do not store for future use.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    6 to 12 years: 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate/day PO.
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
