=== Aspirin/Caffeine/Orphenadrine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 881)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aspirin, caffeine, and orphenadrine are used together in an oral preparation to treat pain and painful musculoskeletal conditions.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 3080 mg/day PO aspirin, 240 mg/day PO caffeine, and 200 mg/day PO orphenadrine.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, ocular hypertension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, urinary retention, weakness, anxiety, confusion, excitability, hallucinations, tremor

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Aspirin may cause severe and potentially fatal acute bronchospasm or angioedema in individuals with aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, which may include the syndrome of asthma...

ASPIRIN/CAFFEINE/ORPHENADRINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Invagesic , Invagesic Forte, Norgesic, Norgesic Forte, Orphengesic, Orphengesic Forte

Indication Specific Dosing

General dosing information:
Safety of continuous long-term therapy with aspirin; caffeine; orphenadrine has not been established; therefore, if this medication is prescribed for prolonged use, periodic monitoring of blood, urine, and liver function values is recommended.


For the symptomatic relief of mild pain to moderate pain of acute musculoskeletal disorders and as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions (e.g., muscle spasm)

Oral dosage (tablets containing aspirin 770 mg, caffeine 60 mg, and orphenadrine 50 mg)
Adults


0.5 to 1 tablet PO 3 to 4 times daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, asthma


Aspirin may cause severe and potentially fatal acute bronchospasm or angioedema in individuals with aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, which may include the syndrome of asthma, rhinitis, and nasal polyps. When aspirin is used in individuals with pre-existing asthma without known aspirin sensitivity, monitor for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma.


bleeding disorder, ethanol ingestion, peptic ulcer disease


Avoid aspirin in individuals with active peptic ulcer disease due to the risk of gastric ulceration and bleeding. Aspirin increases bleeding risk; risk factors for bleeding include history of bleeding disorder, ethanol ingestion, age 60 years and older, and the use of other drugs that increase the risk of bleeding (e.g., anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents, and chronic NSAID therapy).


achalasia, bladder obstruction, duodenal obstruction, glaucoma, prostatic hypertrophy, pyloric stenosis


Aspirin; caffeine; orphenadrine is contraindicated in individuals with glaucoma, pyloric stenosis, duodenal obstruction, achalasia, prostatic hypertrophy, or bladder obstruction due to the mild anti-cholinergic effect of orphenadrine.


myasthenia gravis


Aspirin; caffeine; orphenadrine citrate is contraindicated in individuals with myasthenia gravis.


influenza, varicella


Do not use aspirin in pediatric populations who have or are recovering from varicella (chicken pox), influenza, or influenza-like symptoms due to the risk of Reye syndrome.


hepatic failure


Avoid aspirin in individuals with severe hepatic insufficiency or hepatic failure. Monitor liver function tests periodically if aspirin; caffeine; orphenadrine is used for a prolonged period.


renal disease


Avoid aspirin in individuals with severe renal failure (i.e., GFR less than 10 mL/minute). Aspirin use decreases GFR and renal blood flow, especially in individuals with pre-existing renal disease. The regular use of aspirin is associated with a dose-dependent increased risk of chronic renal failure. Monitor renal function periodically if aspirin; caffeine; orphenadrine is used for a prolonged period.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Advise individuals that aspirin; caffeine; orphenadrine may impair their ability to participate in activities requiring coordination and concentration or to engage in hazardous activities, such as driving or operating machinery.


geriatric


According to the Beers Criteria, skeletal muscle relaxants such as orphenadrine are potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric adults and should be avoided because most muscle relaxants are poorly tolerated by older adults. Orphenadrine can cause anticholinergic effects, sedation, and may be associated with an increased risk of fractures. Also, there is questionable effectiveness of the dosages tolerated by older adults. The panel also recommends avoiding strong anticholinergic medications, such as orphenadrine, in geriatric adults with the following conditions due to the potential for symptom exacerbation or adverse effects: dementia/cognitive impairment (adverse CNS effects), delirium/high risk of delirium (new-onset or worsening delirium), or lower urinary tract symptoms/benign prostatic hyperplasia in men (urinary retention or hesitancy). Aspirin is also a PIM in select geriatric adults. Aspirin may cause new or worsening gastric or duodenal ulcers, and there is an increased risk of GI bleeding and peptic ulcer disease in high-risk groups including those more than 75 years of age, or those taking oral or parenteral corticosteroids, anticoagulants, or antiplatelet medications. The risk of ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation is cumulative with continued use. The Beers panel also recommends avoiding chronic use of aspirin doses more than 325 mg/day in high-risk individuals, including those with a history of gastric or duodenal ulcers, unless other alternatives are not effective and the individual can take a gastroprotective agent. The use of a gastroprotective agent, like a proton-pump inhibitor or misoprostol, reduces but does not eliminate, GI risk.


labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy


Avoid the use of NSAIDs, including regular-strength aspirin, during pregnancy starting at 30 weeks gestation due to the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. When use is necessary between 20 and 30 weeks gestation, limit use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if treatment exceeds 48 hours. Discontinue the NSAID if oligohydramnios develops, and follow up according to clinical practice. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks gestation and later may also cause fetal renal dysfunction, leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some cases, invasive neonatal procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis have been required. Salicylates have also been associated with alterations in maternal and neonatal hemostasis mechanisms, decreased birth weight, and perinatal mortality. It is recommended to avoid the use of aspirin 1 week prior to and during labor and obstetric delivery due to the potential for excessive blood loss at delivery. Prolonged gestation and labor due to prostaglandin inhibition have been reported. Use caffeine-containing medications with caution during pregnancy. Caffeine crosses the placenta and distributes to embryo-fetal tissues. Animal studies suggest teratogenicity, with a small increase in fetal cleft palate and exencephaly after exposure during organogenesis. Limit caffeine intake from all sources to less than 200 mg/day during pregnancy. Moderate intake below this level does not appear to be a major contributor to miscarriage or preterm birth and has not been consistently associated with congenital malformations in humans. Higher intake levels have been associated with inconsistent fetal risk signals. Interpretation of human data is limited by confounding, exposure variability, and bias.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with aspirin. NSAIDs may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.


breast-feeding


Use aspirin; caffeine; orphenadrine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of aspirin; caffeine; orphenadrine in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Long term use of regular-dose aspirin is not recommended as salicylates are excreted into human milk, with higher doses resulting in disproportionately higher milk levels which could cause adverse effects in the breastfed child. Mean peak breast milk concentrations of salicylate in 6 lactating individuals after aspirin doses of 500, 1,000, and 1,500 mg were 5.8, 15.8, and 38.8 mg/L, respectively. Salicylate concentrations were detectable in breast milk within 1 hour of dosing and reached maximum concentration within 2 to 6 hours. There has been a case report linking long-term, high dose aspirin use by a lactating person to metabolic acidosis in a 16-day-old neonate. If aspirin is used during lactation, monitor the breastfed child for bruising and bleeding. Alternative analgesics and antipyretics considered to be usually compatible with breast-feeding include acetaminophen and ibuprofen. Caffeine-containing drug products should be used cautiously during lactation due to their high caffeine content. Caffeine appears in human milk rapidly after ingestion. Peak caffeine milk levels usually occur within 1 hour after the ingestion of a caffeinated beverage, with milk: plasma ratios of 0.5 to 0.7 reported. Some sources suggest limiting caffeine intake (e.g., 300 to 500 mg per day or less) if breast-feeding. Lower intake is suggested for those who are breast-feeding preterm and newborn infants, as these infants have slower caffeine metabolism and may have caffeine concentrations after breast-feeding that approximate maternal levels. High caffeine intake (more than 500 mg/day) by a breast-feeding individual may cause irritability or poor sleeping patterns in the breast-fed child.


adolescents, children, infants


The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes aspirin as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in infants, children, and adolescents with suspicion of a viral illness and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use aspirin; caffeine; orphenadrine with caution and appropriate monitoring.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Avoid the use of NSAIDs, including regular-strength aspirin, during pregnancy starting at 30 weeks gestation due to the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. When use is necessary between 20 and 30 weeks gestation, limit use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if treatment exceeds 48 hours. Discontinue the NSAID if oligohydramnios develops, and follow up according to clinical practice. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks gestation and later may also cause fetal renal dysfunction, leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some cases, invasive neonatal procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis have been required. Salicylates have also been associated with alterations in maternal and neonatal hemostasis mechanisms, decreased birth weight, and perinatal mortality. It is recommended to avoid the use of aspirin 1 week prior to and during labor and obstetric delivery due to the potential for excessive blood loss at delivery. Prolonged gestation and labor due to prostaglandin inhibition have been reported. Use caffeine-containing medications with caution during pregnancy. Caffeine crosses the placenta and distributes to embryo-fetal tissues. Animal studies suggest teratogenicity, with a small increase in fetal cleft palate and exencephaly after exposure during organogenesis. Limit caffeine intake from all sources to less than 200 mg/day during pregnancy. Moderate intake below this level does not appear to be a major contributor to miscarriage or preterm birth and has not been consistently associated with congenital malformations in humans. Higher intake levels have been associated with inconsistent fetal risk signals. Interpretation of human data is limited by confounding, exposure variability, and bias.


Interactions

AbobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acarbose: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors whenever possible. There were reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death with high-dose aspirin and acetazolamide. Two mechanisms could cause increased acetazolamide concentrations, resulting in CNS depression and metabolic acidosis: first, competition with aspirin for renal tubular secretion and, second, displacement by salicylates from plasma protein binding sites. Additionally, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors alkalinize urine and increase the excretion of normal doses of salicylates; decreased plasma salicylate concentrations may or may not be clinically significant.
Acetohydroxamic Acid: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acidifying Agents: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of acyclovir is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and acyclovir is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Adenosine: (Major) Larger doses of adenosine may be required or adenosine may not be effective in the presence of methylxanthines. The effects of adenosine are antagonized by methylxanthines. When used for diagnostic purposes, instruct patients to avoid consumption of methylxanthine-containing products, including caffeinated beverages, for at least 5 half-lives prior to the imaging study.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Alendronate: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of alfentanil with orphenadrine may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Allopurinol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of allopurinol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and allopurinol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like orphenadrine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Amantadine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and drowsiness may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with amantadine.
Amikacin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aminoglycosides: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of amiodarone is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and amiodarone is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with cyclic antidepressants like amoxapine because they could cause additive sedation or anticholinergic effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Patients should be monitored for excessive adverse effects from either agent.
Amoxicillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amoxicillin; Clavulanic Acid: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B: (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Ampicillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Large doses of salicylates (more than 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and antithrombin III should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects may be seen with combination use of orphenadrine and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Apixaban: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C: (Minor) Agents that acidify the urine should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urinary pH changes can decrease salicylate excretion. However, if the urine is acidic prior to administration of an acidifying agent, the increase in salicylic acid concentrations should be minimal.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) Methylxanthines, through antagonism of adenosine and thus pharmacologic-induced coronary vasodilation, have been associated with false-negative results during dipyridamole-thallium 201 stress testing. It is recommended that methylxanthines (caffeine, caffeinated beverages and foods, theophylline, etc.) be discontinued for at least 24 hours prior to stress testing. An interaction is not expected when methylxanthines are used concomitantly with chronic dipyridamole therapy. (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of aspirin and dipyridamole; both medications interfere with platelet aggregation and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding. For patients undergoing a dipyridamole nuclear stress test and receiving combination aspirin; dipyridamole, hold aspirin; dipyridamole for 48 hours prior to the stress test; concomitant use may increase the risk for cardiovascular side effects and impair the sensitivity of the test.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Atropine: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of atropine may be enhanced when combined with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with orphenadrine can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration. (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of atropine may be enhanced when combined with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bacitracin: (Minor) Additive nephrotoxicity may occur with concurrent use of systemic bacitracin and other nephrotoxic agents, including salicylates. Topical administration of any preparation containing bacitracin, especially when applied to large surface areas, also should not be given with other drugs that have a nephrotoxic potential.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opoid agonists with orphenadrine may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties, such as orphenadrine.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of benzhydrocodone with orphenadrine may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when hyoscyamine is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when benztropine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess anticholinergic properties, such as orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Beta-agonists: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Botulinum Toxins: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects and reduced efficacy of both medications if concomitant use of bromocriptine and a salicylate is necessary. Both medications are highly protein-bound and concomitant use may increase the unbound fraction of drug in circulation increasing the risk for adverse effects or enhancing drug elimination and reducing overall drug exposure.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when glycopyrrolate is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concurrent use of orphenadrine and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs because of the potential for additive pharmacological effects. Sedation, coma, or respiratory depression may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concurrent use of orphenadrine and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs because of the potential for additive pharmacological effects. Sedation, coma, or respiratory depression may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy.
busPIRone: (Minor) In vitro studies showed that therapeutic levels of aspirin, ASA increased the plasma concentrations of free buspirone by 23% through plasma protein binding displacement. In vivo interaction studies with these drugs have not been performed.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine. (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine. (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with other CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Certain foods that contain high amounts of caffeine or theobromine should be limited during the therapeutic use of caffeine in order to limit additive methylxanthine effects. While taking Caffeine-containing medicines, limit the use of foods, beverages (examples: coffee, tea, colas), herbs (examples: guarana, green tea) and other products that contain additional caffeine, such as chocolate and some non-prescription medications or dietary supplements for headache, insomnia, or weight loss. Too much Caffeine can cause effects like nausea, nervousness, or sleeplessness. Some drug products for adults that contain caffeine have about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Additive CNS depressant effects may be possible when sodium oxybate is used concurrently with skeletal muscle relaxants. (Moderate) Caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously with oxybates. Monitor for potential side effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Consider a dose reduction of caffeine as clinically appropriate, if adverse reactions occur when administered with cannabidiol. Increased caffeine exposure is possible. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and cannabidiol is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and orphenadrine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and aspirin when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Capreomycin: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Captopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Carbamazepine may induce caffeine metabolism via induction of the hepatic CYP1A2 isoenzyme.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Cefixime: (Minor) In vitro, salicylates have displaced cefixime from its protein-binding sites, resulting in a 50% increase in free cefixime levels. The clinical significance of this effect is unclear at this time.
cefoTEtan: (Minor) Cefotetan has been associated with hypoprothrombinemia and may cause additive effects when given concurrently with salicylates.
Celecoxib: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and orphenadrine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when chlorpromazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant administration of cidofovir and NSAIDs, such as aspirin, is contraindicated due to the potential for increased nephrotoxicity. Aspirin should be discontinued 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Cimetidine: (Minor) Inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as cimetidine, may inhibit the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine. In patients who complain of caffeine-related side effects caffeine dosage or intake may need to be reduced.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Reduction or limitation of the caffeine dosage in medications and limitation of caffeine in beverages and food may be necessary during concurrent ciprofloxacin therapy. Ciprofloxacin can decrease the clearance of caffeine. Caffeine toxicity may occur and can manifest as nausea, vomiting, anxiety, tachycardia, or seizures. Ciprofloxacin is a CYP1A2 inhibitor and caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate.
Citalopram: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Clomipramine may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. This may increase the risk for an upper GI bleed. (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if aspirin and clopidogrel are used together as concomitant has an additive effect on platelet function.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
cloZAPine: (Major) Caffeine may inhibit clozapine metabolism via CYP1A2. Clozapine clearance has been decreased by roughly 14 percent during coadministration of caffeine, and a documented increase in clozapine serum concentrations has occurred in selected patients. In addition, a single case report associates the appearance of psychiatric symptoms with caffeine ingestion in one patient taking clozapine. Until more data are available, caffeine consumption should be minimized during clozapine treatment. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like clozapine and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when promethazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when promethazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Colistin: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking more than 150 mg/day of aspirin is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking more than 150 mg/day of aspirin within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Major) Orphenadrine has mild anticholinergic activity. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as cyclobenzaprine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
cycloSPORINE: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like cyclosporine may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dabigatran: (Major) Educate patients about the signs of increased bleeding and the need to report these signs to a healthcare provider immediately if coadministration of dabigatran and aspirin or another salicylate is necessary. Dabigatran can cause significant and, sometimes, fatal bleeding. This risk may be increased by concurrent use of chronic salicylate therapy.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like darifenacin are used concomitantly with orphenadrine. (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
DaxibotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including salicylates.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like aspirin is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue antithrombotic agents prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as orphenadrine, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Due to the anesthetic effects of dexmedetomidine, concurrent use with other CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, could result in additive sedative effects and possibly prolong recovery from anesthesia. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of diazoxide is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and diazoxide is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Dichlorphenamide: (Major) Dichlorphenamide is contraindicated with the concomitant use of high dose aspirin, ASA and should be used cautiously in patients receiving low dose aspirin. Dichlorphenamide may cause an elevation in salicylate concentrations in patients receiving aspirin. Adverse reactions including anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, and coma have been reported with the concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and high dose aspirin.
Diclofenac: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and diclofenac is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Diclofenac is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and diclofenac is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Diclofenac is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Dicloxacillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when dicyclomine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess anticholinergic properties, such as orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Diflunisal: (Major) The concurrent use of diflunisal and salicylates is not recommended due to the increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity with little or no increase in anti-inflammatory efficacy.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with orphenadrine can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration. (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of atropine may be enhanced when combined with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Dipyridamole: (Major) Methylxanthines, through antagonism of adenosine and thus pharmacologic-induced coronary vasodilation, have been associated with false-negative results during dipyridamole-thallium 201 stress testing. It is recommended that methylxanthines (caffeine, caffeinated beverages and foods, theophylline, etc.) be discontinued for at least 24 hours prior to stress testing. An interaction is not expected when methylxanthines are used concomitantly with chronic dipyridamole therapy. (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of aspirin and dipyridamole; both medications interfere with platelet aggregation and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding. For patients undergoing a dipyridamole nuclear stress test and receiving combination aspirin; dipyridamole, hold aspirin; dipyridamole for 48 hours prior to the stress test; concomitant use may increase the risk for cardiovascular side effects and impair the sensitivity of the test.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties like disopyramide and orphenadrine are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Donepezil: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of donepezil may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties, such as orphenadrine, the functional antagonists of the cholinesterase inhibitors.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of donepezil may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties, such as orphenadrine, the functional antagonists of the cholinesterase inhibitors.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants, like doxapram. CNS stimulants and sympathomimetics are associated with adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias, and the concomitant use of these drugs increases the risk of developing such adverse reactions. Coadminsitration should be avoided or used cautiously.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with dronabinol can result in additive CNS depression and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Utilize appropriate caution if these drugs are given together.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects may be seen with combination use of orphenadrine and droperidol. Dosage reduction and/or discontinuance of one or both drugs is recommended.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Echinacea: (Moderate) Echinacea may inhibit the metabolism of caffeine. Echinacea reduces the oral clearance of caffeine by 27 percent and increases the mean AUC by 129 percent. Monitor patients for signs of increased caffeine serum concentrations if these drugs are coadministered until more data are available.
Edoxaban: (Major) Monitor for bleeding in patients who require chronic treatment with aspirin. Concomitant use of edoxaban with drugs that affect hemostasis, such as aspirin, may increase the risk of bleeding. The coadministration of aspirin (100 mg or 325 mg) and edoxaban increased bleeding time relative to that seen with either drug alone.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of enasidenib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and enasidenib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like ephedrine. Adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with ephedrine. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like ephedrine. Adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with ephedrine. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, epoprostenol may increase the risk of bleeding.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Inhibitors of the hepatic CYP4501A2, such as erythromycin, may inhibit the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine. No specific management is recommended except in patients who complain of caffeine related side effects. In such patients, the dosage of caffeine containing medications or the ingestion of caffeine containing products may need to be reduced.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure. (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Esterified Estrogens: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estrogens (selected): (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects may be seen with combination use of orphenadrine and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. (Minor) Patients taking eszopiclone for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime, as well as excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep. Limit use of caffeine-containing products including medications, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), and beverages (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, or colas).
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression. (Major) Concomitant ingestion of alcohol with salicylates, especially aspirin, ASA, increases the risk of developing gastric irritation and GI mucosal bleeding. Alcohol and salicylates are mucosal irritants and aspirin decreases platelet aggregation. Routine ingestion of alcohol and aspirin can cause significant GI bleeding, which may or may not be overt. Even occasional concomitant use of salicylates and alcohol should be avoided. Chronic ingestion of alcohol is often associated with hypoprothrombinemia and this condition increases the risk of salicylate-induced bleeding. Patients should be warned regarding the potential for increased risk of GI bleeding if alcohol-containing beverages are taken concurrently with salicylates.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Etodolac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and orphenadrine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Fenoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of fentanyl with orphenadrine may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Fesoterodine: (Moderate) Coadministration of fesoterodine and other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects such as orphenadrine may increase the frequency and/or severity of anticholinergic effects such as blurred vision, constipation, xerostomia, and urinary retention. Additive effects may be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. (Minor) Beverages containing caffeine or ethanol may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of fesoterodine to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas) and alcoholic beverages.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with aspirin. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Fluconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 25 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when fluphenazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Strong inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine, may inhibit the metabolism of caffeine. No specific management is recommended except in patients with caffeine-related side effects after initiating fluvoxamine. In such patients, the dosage of caffeine containing medications or the ingestion of caffeine containing products may need to be reduced. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with fondaparinux. Data on the concomitant use of fondaparinux with aspirin are lacking; however, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Foscarnet: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as foscarnet, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination. (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Fosphenytoin is converted to phenytoin in vivo, so this interaction may also occur with fosphenytoin.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and orphenadrine. Concomitant use of gabapentin with orphenadrine may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Galantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties, such as orphenadrine.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Garlic, Allium sativum may produce clinically-significant antiplatelet effects; until more data are available, garlic should be used cautiously in patients receiving drugs with a potential risk for bleeding such as aspirin, ASA.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Gentamicin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) There may be an increased risk of bleeding in patients on aspirin therapy who take ginger as a supplement (i.e., usual dietary intake is not expected to pose a risk). Several pungent constituents of ginger, Zingiber officinale are reported to inhibit arachidonic acid induced platelet activation in human whole blood. Ginger-associated platelet inhibition may be related to a decrease in COX-1/Thromboxane synthase enzymatic activity. The increased risk of bleeding is theoretical; clinical data of an interaction are not available.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and aspirin as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Givosiran: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of givosiran and caffeine due to the risk of increased caffeine-related adverse reactions. If use is necessary, consider decreasing the caffeine dose. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. Givosiran may moderately reduce hepatic CYP1A2 enzyme activity because of its pharmacological effects on the hepatic heme biosynthesis pathway.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when glycopyrrolate is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when glycopyrrolate is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea should be used cautiously in patients taking aspirin; there may be an increased risk of bleeding. Monitoring clinical and/or laboratory parameters is warranted. Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals.
Griseofulvin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of griseofulvin with salicylates may result in decreased salicylate serum concentrations. Caution and close monitoring for changes in the effectiveness of the salicylate are recommended.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Orphenadrine has mild anticholinergic activity. Concomitant use of orphenadrine and haloperidol may worsen schizophrenic symptoms. Tardive dyskinesia may also develop.
Heparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin). Despite the potential drug-drug interaction between aspirin and heparin, heparin is frequently administered in combination with low-dose aspirin therapy to patients who have had an acute myocardial infarction and in other disease states. In addition, large doses of salicylates (at least 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine. (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of homatropine may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when hyoscyamine is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when hyoscyamine is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine.
Ibandronate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of intravenous or oral ibandronate use, respectively, and aspirin. Acute renal failure has been observed with intravenous ibandronate and concomitant use of other nephrotoxic agents may increase this risk. Additionally, the oral formulations of both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with platelet function such as aspirin; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with asprin is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia. (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ibrutinib and antiplatelet agents such as aspirin may increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients for signs of bleeding. Severe bleeding events have occurred with ibrutinib therapy including intracranial hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematuria, and post procedural hemorrhage; some events were fatal. The mechanism for bleeding with ibrutinib therapy is not well understood. Also, aspirin may mask signs of infection such as fever and in patients following treatment with antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
IncobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Indomethacin: (Major) The concurrent use of salicylates and indomethacin is not recommended. Combined use does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than indomethacin monotherapy. Also, a significantly greater incidence of gastrointestinal adverse effects with concurrent use has been observed. Because NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, and prolong bleeding time, additive effects may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin), anticoagulants, or thrombolytic agents.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and salicylates due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity as well as the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of salicylates in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with aspirin. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Iodixanol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iohexol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iopromide: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ioversol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Iron Sucrose, Sucroferric Oxyhydroxide: (Moderate) Administer aspirin at least 1 hour before oral iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide. Oral iron salts may reduce the bioavailability of aspirin, leading to decreased absorption.
Isocarboxazid: (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Ketoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity. (Minor) Caffeine administered concurrently with ketoprofen reduced the urine volume in 4 healthy volunteers. The clinical significance of the interaction in preterm neonates is not known.
Ketorolac: (Contraindicated) Ketorolac is contraindicated in patients currently receiving salicylates due to increased risk of serious NSAID-related adverse events, including gastrointestinal bleeding, ulceration, and perforation.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and orphenadrine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and orphenadrine. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and orphenadrine may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial levorphanol dosage by 50% or more.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Caffeine use should be minimized or avoided during and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of linezolid. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Dangerous cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension can occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of lisdexamfetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Lithium: (Major) Caffeine appears to reduce serum lithium concentrations. Adverse reactions to lithium have also been noted to increase simultaneously with a reduction in caffeine intake. Patients taking lithium should be counseled regarding their intake of caffeine.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and orphenadrine. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Low Molecular Weight Heparins: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Loxapine and orphenadrine both have anticholinergic activity. The concomitant use of these drugs can increase the risk of anticholinergic adverse reactions including exacerbation of glaucoma, constipation, and urinary retention. Loxapine is a central nervous system (CNS) depressant. The concurrent use of loxapine with other CNS depressants (e.g., muscle relaxants such as orphenadrine) can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and syncope. Therefore, consider reducing the dose of CNS depressants if used concomitantly with loxapine.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Mafenide: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Mannitol: (Major) In general, avoid use of mannitol and salicylates. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs, such as the salicylates, increases the risk of renal failure after administration of mannitol. However, mannitol promotes the urinary excretion of salicylates, and may be used as an adjunct in salicylate intoxication.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Increased adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects are possible if mefenamic acid is used with salicylates. In addition, concomitant administration of salicylates and mefenamic acid may result in an increase in unbound plasma concentrations of either drug, which could result in greater adverse effects. In general, concomitant use of aspirin and mefenamic acid is not recommended.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Melatonin: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime, as well as excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Meloxicam: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects may be seen with combination use of orphenadrine and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Metaproterenol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of methadone with orphenadrine may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
methazolAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, like methazolamide, whenever possible. The combination yielded reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death. The mechanism appears to be accumulation of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, resulting in increased CNS depression and metabolic acidosis. The acidosis may allow greater CNS penetration of the salicylate.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when hyoscyamine is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Methotrexate: (Major) Do not administer salicylates before or concomitantly with high doses of methotrexate, such as used in the treatment of osteosarcoma. Concomitant administration of some NSAIDs with high dose methotrexate therapy has been reported to elevate and prolong serum methotrexate concentrations, resulting in deaths from severe hematologic and gastrointestinal toxicity. Use caution when salicylates are administered concomitantly with lower doses of methotrexate. Salicylates have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model and may enhance its toxicity. Methotrexate is partially bound to serum albumin, and toxicity may be increased because of displacement by salicylates.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Metoclopramide can increase the rate or extent of absorption of aspirin because of accelerated gastric emptying, which increases the contact time with the small bowel where this drug is absorbed.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Mexiletine is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 isoenzymes, and may reduce CYP1A2-mediated caffeine metabolism. Mexiletine has been shown to increase caffeine concentrations by as much as 23 percent after a single 200 mg dose of mexiletine (nonsignificant increase, p<0.1). Another study has reported that the elimination of caffeine is decreased by 50 percent. While the clinical significance of this interaction is not known, elevated plasma caffeine levels may be of concern in patients with arrhythmias. Patients with cardiac arrhythmias on mexiletine should be cautioned to limit their intake of caffeine.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
migALAstat: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral caffeine and migalastat by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease migalastat exposure and efficacy. Coadministration of 190 mg caffeine reduced the mean migalastat AUC by 55%.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Skeletal muscle relaxants like orphenadrine may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other drugs with CNS depressant properties such as mirtazapine. Combination therapy may amplify sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary in some instances.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Caffeine should be used cautiously with modafinil. Excessive intake should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia or other side effects.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Molindone: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of morphine with orphenadrine may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. For extended-release morphine tablets (MS Contin and Morphabond), start with 15 mg every 12 hours. Morphine; naltrexone should be initiated at 1/3 to 1/2 the recommended starting dosage. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Mycophenolic acid is more than 98% bound to albumin. Concurrent use of mycophenolate with salicylates can decrease the protein binding of mycophenolic acid resulting in an increase in the free fraction of MPA. Patients should be observed for increased clinical effects from mycophenolate as well as additive adverse effects.
Nabumetone: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of nalbuphine with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when glycopyrrolate is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine.
Nitazoxanide: (Moderate) The active metabolite of nitazoxanide, tizoxanide, is highly bound to plasma proteins. Caution should be exercised when administering nitazoxanide concurrently with other highly plasma protein-bound drugs with narrow therapeutic indices because competition for binding sites may occur.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) When coadministered with aspirin, ASA (doses between 500 mg and 1000 mg), the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) of a single nitroglycerin dose is increased by 67% and 73%, respectively. Additionally, limited data suggest that patients receiving aspirin, ASA in high doses can exhibit an exaggerated response to sublingual nitroglycerin. Although hypotension and tachycardia were more significant during concomitant therapy, no special precautions appear necessary. The pharmacologic effects of 0.4% nitroglycerin rectal ointment may also be enhanced when administered concomitantly with aspirin, ASA; therefore, close clinical monitoring is advised.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant.
Obeticholic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of obeticholic acid is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 42%; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and obeticholic acid is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like olanzapine and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like olanzapine and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like olanzapine and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Olodaterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Omacetaxine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of omacetaxine and aspirin, ASA when the platelet count is less than 50,000 cells/microliter due to an increased risk of bleeding. Also, aspirin may mask signs of infection such as fever and pain in patients following treatment with antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives. Aspirin, ASA should be used with caution in patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy. Special consideration should be given to myelosuppressed patients prior to receiving aspirin.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
OnabotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Oxacillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Oxaprozin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when oxybutynin is used concomitantly with other drugs that have moderate to significant anticholinergic effects, including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Minor) Consuming greater than 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urine output, and counteract the effectiveness of drugs used to treat overactive bladder such as oxybutynin. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxymorphone dosage by one-third to one-half.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Pamidronate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant pamidronate and aspirin use due to risk for additive nephrotoxicity.
Paromomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like paroxetine and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) The effects of peginterferon alfa-2b on CYP1A2 were evaluated in drug interaction studies. Administration of peginterferon alfa-2b with caffeine, a CYP1A2 substrate, resulted in an 18% to 39% increase in the geographic mean exposure for caffeine, suggesting inhibition of CYP1A2. Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to caffeine if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered with caffeine.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Penicillin G Benzathine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin V: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillins: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of pentazocine with orphenadrine may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of pentazocine with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of platelet inhibitor with pentoxifylline in the treatment of intermittent claudication has not been evaluated and should be approached with caution, due to the potential for synergistic effects.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when perphenazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when perphenazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur. (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Phenelzine: (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when hyoscyamine is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when scopolamine is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of atropine may be enhanced when combined with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination. (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Displacement of phenytoin from binding sites can lead to a decrease in the total phenytoin serum concentration. Close monitoring for excessive phenytoin toxicity or decreased phenytoin efficacy is recommended.
Phosphorated Carbohydrate Solution: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Phosphorus: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Piroxicam: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Pivmecillinam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Plazomicin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Salicylates can indirectly increase insulin secretion, and thus decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates may cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both prasugrel and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Aspirin 150 mg did not alter prasugrel-mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation; however, bleeding time was increased compared to either drug alone. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and orphenadrine. Concomitant use of pregabalin with orphenadrine may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of primaquine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and primaquine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Primidone: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Procarbazine: (Major) Ingestion of certain products should be minimized while receiving procarbazine therapy, as the drug has some MAO inhibiting actions. Caffeine may produce hypertension or hypertensive crisis or induce cardiac arrhythmias if administered to patients taking drugs with strong MAOI properties. All preparations containing caffeine should be used sparingly such as teas, coffee, chocolate, cola, guarana, or 'stay awake' products. Some non-prescription medicines also contain caffeine and should not be taken without health care professional advice. Following discontinuation of procarbazine, dietary restrictions should continue for at least 2 weeks due to the slow recovery from the enzyme-inhibiting effects.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when prochlorperazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when promethazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when promethazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when promethazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Psyllium: (Moderate) Psyllium can interfere with the absorption of certain oral drugs if administered concomitantly. For example, psyllium fiber can adsorb salicylates. Per the psyllium manufacturers, administration of other prescribed oral drugs should be separated from the administration of psyllium by at least 2 hours.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Patients who are using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid foods and beverages that contain caffeine. They should also avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients, such as caffeine, that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant effect. If a patient is taking prescribed medications containing caffeine, then they should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine. Additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate may be additive. Consider alternatives to racepinephrine for the treatment of asthma.
Ramelteon: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin or the melatonin analogs (ramelteon, tasimelteon) for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Although sympathomimetics and psychostimulants are contraindicated for use with other monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses.
Regadenoson: (Major) Caffeine is a non-specific adenosine receptor antagonist and can interfere with the efficacy of regadenoson. Patients should avoid consumption of any products containing caffeine (including caffeine from foods and beverages such as coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, and chocolate) for at least 12 hours before regadenoson administration.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of remifentanil with orphenadrine may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
rifAMPin: (Minor) Rifampin is a potent inducer of the cytochrome P450 hepatic enzyme system and can reduce the plasma concentrations and possibly the efficacy of caffeine, including caffeine found in green tea products.
RimabotulinumtoxinB: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Risedronate: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of risedronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Salicylates such as aspirin are known to increase bleeding, and bleeding risk may be increased when these drugs are used concomitantly with rivaroxaban. The safety of long-term concomitant use of these drugs has not been studied. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding or blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with salicylates. In a single-dose drug interaction study, no pharmacokinetic interactions were observed after concomitant administration of acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin, ASA) with rivaroxaban.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of certain muscle relaxants, such as cyclobenzaprine or orphenadrine, with rivastigmine should be avoided if possible. Rivastigmine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Use of cyclobenzaprine or high doses of orphenadrine may result in significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of rivastigmine.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when scopolamine is used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Although psychostimulants are contraindicated for use with other monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with selegiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of selegiline at manufacturer recommended doses. However, cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension is possible if doses are exceeded or caffeine intake is excessive.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Sertraline: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sodium Benzoate; Sodium Phenylacetate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Additive CNS depressant effects may be possible when sodium oxybate is used concurrently with skeletal muscle relaxants. (Moderate) Caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously with oxybates. Monitor for potential side effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Thiosulfate; Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
Solifenacin: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Beverages containing caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urine output, and counteract the effectiveness of solifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements, or beverages.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for decreased efficacy of spironolactone if coadministration with aspirin is necessary. The spironolactone dose may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those receiving diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of spironolactone and aspirin may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. Aspirin may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. A single aspirin 600 mg dose inhibited the natriuretic effect of spironolactone, which was hypothesized be due to inhibition of tubular secretion of canrenone, causing decreased effectiveness of spironolactone.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for decreased efficacy of spironolactone if coadministration with aspirin is necessary. The spironolactone dose may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those receiving diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of spironolactone and aspirin may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. Aspirin may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. A single aspirin 600 mg dose inhibited the natriuretic effect of spironolactone, which was hypothesized be due to inhibition of tubular secretion of canrenone, causing decreased effectiveness of spironolactone.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Inducers of CYP1A2, such as St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum, may induce the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of caffeine when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of caffeine resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP1A2 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions. (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and orphenadrine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
Streptomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of sufentanil with orphenadrine may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
sulfADIAZINE: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
sulfaSALAzine: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonamides: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulindac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Suvorexant: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Tacrolimus, in the absence of overt renal impairment, may adversely affect renal function. Care should be taken in using tacrolimus with other nephrotoxic drugs, such as salicylates.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Tasimelteon: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin or the melatonin analogs (ramelteon, tasimelteon) for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Telavancin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Terbutaline: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Teriflunomide: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of caffeine during coadministration of teriflunomide. Teriflunomide may be a weak inducer of CYP1A2. When teriflunomide was given concurrently with caffeine in vivo, a CYP1A2 substrate, the Cmax and AUC of caffeine decreased by 18% and 55%, respectively.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with other central nervous system depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Major) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. The concurrent administration of caffeine to patients taking aminophylline may produce excessive caffeine-like side effects, such as nausea, irritability or nervousness. Adverse effects such as tremors, insomnia, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently. Patients should avoid medications containing caffeine when possible. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects. (Major) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. The concurrent administration of caffeine to patients taking theophylline may produce excessive caffeine-like side effects, such as nausea, irritability or nervousness. Adverse effects such as tremors, insomnia, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with theophylline. Patients taking theophylline should avoid medications containing caffeine when possible. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects. In neonates, theophylline is metabolized to caffeine; initiating caffeine after theophylline therapy is halted may result in caffeine toxicity in neonates if serum caffeine levels are not monitored prior to the initiation of caffeine therapy. Concurrent use of theophylline with caffeine in neonates is not recommended due to the potential for additive toxicity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when thioridazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs, such skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Thrombin Inhibitors: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased bleeding and avoid aspirin doses greater than 100 mg during ticagrelor coadministration. Lower aspirin doses (100 mg or less) are associated with a lower risk of bleeding. Additionally, maintenance doses of aspirin above 300 mg decreased ticagrelor efficacy compared with doses of 100 mg or less in a clinical trial.
Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Caution should be used when administering tipranavir to patients receiving platelet inhibitors. In clinical trials, there have been reports of intracranial bleeding, including fatalities, in HIV infected patients receiving tipranavir as part of combination antiretroviral therapy. In many of these reports, the patients had other medical conditions (CNS lesions, head trauma, recent neurosurgery, coagulopathy, hypertension, or alcoholism/alcohol abuse) or were receiving concomitant medications, including platelet inhibitors, that may have caused or contributed to these events.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients who are taking caffeine to avoid smoking tobacco. Smoking tobacco has been observed to increase caffeine clearance by 50% to 70%. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and smoking tobacco induces CYP1A2.
Tobramycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tolmetin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with other drugs known to possess anticholinergic properties including tolterodine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. (Minor) Beverages containing caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of tolterodine to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements, or beverages.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Minor) In a few reported cases, coadministration of verapamil with aspirin, ASA has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone. The exact mechanism and clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. (Minor) Verapamil reduces the clearance of caffeine and increases serum caffeine concentrations, presumably via inhibition of hepatic metabolism. During concomitant therapy with verapamil, it may be prudent to advise patients to limit or minimize the intake of caffeinated products to minimize caffeine-related side effects.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
traZODone: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, should be used cautiously in patients receiving trazodone because of additive CNS-depressant effects, including possible respiratory depression or hypotension. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant trazodone and salicylate use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are coadministered with another anticoagulant.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trifluoperazine is used concomitantly with other drugs having antimuscarinic activity such as orphenadrine. Additive sedation may also occur.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Orphenadrine should be combined cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants due to the potential for additive anticholinergic and CNS depressant effects. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Consider an alternative skeletal muscle relaxant.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium are used concomitantly with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Concurrent salicylate therapy can increase the free-fraction of valproic acid, causing possible valproic acid toxicity. Valproic acid levels should be monitored when these agents are used concomitantly.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Vancomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as vancomycin, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Verapamil: (Minor) In a few reported cases, coadministration of verapamil with aspirin, ASA has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone. The exact mechanism and clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. (Minor) Verapamil reduces the clearance of caffeine and increases serum caffeine concentrations, presumably via inhibition of hepatic metabolism. During concomitant therapy with verapamil, it may be prudent to advise patients to limit or minimize the intake of caffeinated products to minimize caffeine-related side effects.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with aspirin is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation like aspirin could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Major) Co-administration of aspirin and warfarin is associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Consider alternate therapy for aspirin for analgesic or antipyretic uses. If aspirin and warfarin are coadministered, monitor the patient for signs or symptoms of bleeding. Gastrointestinal irritation and impaired hemostasis secondary to platelet inhibition have been observed with relatively small doses of aspirin. In addition, aspirin may displace warfarin from protein binding sites leading to increased anticoagulation effects. Large doses (more than 3 to 4 g/day) of aspirin can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding; hypoprothrombinemia has also been reported with aspirin doses less than 2 g/day. Lower doses (less than 100 mg) of aspirin are recommended for use in combination with aspirin for the prevention of cardiovascular events in specific cases, including in patients with mechanical mitral or aortic valve or atrial fibrillation after percutaneous coronary intervention or revascularization. The addition of warfarin to aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor in patients after ST-elevation myocardial infarction should be limited to situations where the risk of systemic or venous thromboembolism or stent thrombosis is considered to exceed that of bleeding. Data regarding the benefit vs. risk of combination therapy for other cardiovascular conditions remains unclear.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium are used concomitantly with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Coadministration of aspirin may increase plasma concentrations of zafirlukast. The potential clinical sequelae of increased zafirlukast concentrations are not known.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects may be seen with combination use of orphenadrine and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as zaleplon should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Zileuton: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of zileuton is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and zileuton is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Ziprasidone has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. Additive CNS depressant effects are possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with any CNS depressant, including orphenadrine.
Zoledronic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant zoledronic acid and aspirin use due to risk for additive nephrotoxicity.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects may be seen with combination use of orphenadrine and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages within the hours close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep. However, in healthy subjects (without insomnia) in a pharmacokinetic study, coadministration of caffeine at a dosage of 150 to 300 mg with zolpidem did not counteract the sedative effects of a single 10 mg dose of zolpidem.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of a combination product. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about the specific precautions of each agent.

blurred vision, constipation, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, nausea, ocular hypertension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, urinary retention, vomiting, weakness, xerostomia


Anticholinergic effects have been reported after the use of aspirin, ASA; caffeine; orphenadrine citrate including sinus tachycardia, palpitations, urinary retention or hesitancy, xerostomia, blurred vision, dilation of the pupil, increased intraocular tension (ocular hypertension), weakness, nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, constipation, and drowsiness. These effects are usually mild and resolve with dosage reductions.


urticaria


Rarely, urticaria and other dermatoses have been reported during use of aspirin, ASA; caffeine; orphenadrine citrate. Such effects may be indicative of a hypersensitivity reaction.


anxiety, confusion, excitability, hallucinations, tremor


Confusion, anxiety, and tremor have been reported infrequently among patients receiving orphenadrine. Dosage reduction or treatment discontinuation is recommended in these cases as the symptoms may be additive. Mild central excitability and occasional hallucinations may be observed. Infrequently, an elderly patient may experience some degree of confusion. These adverse effects are usually mild and resolve with dosage reductions.


aplastic anemia


Although no casual relationship has been established, a single case of aplastic anemia has been reported with aspirin, ASA; caffeine; orphenadrine citrate use. Periodic monitoring of the blood values is recommended if prolonged use of this medication is undertaken.


GI bleeding


Aspirin, ASA; caffeine; orphenadrine has rarely been associated with GI bleeding.


syncope


Transient episodes of lightheadedness, dizziness, or syncope have occurred with aspirin, ASA; caffeine; orphenadrine citrate use. These adverse effects are usually mild and resolve with dosage reductions.


Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)


Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), a multi-organ hypersensitivity reaction, has occurred with NSAIDs. Some of these events have been life-threatening or fatal. DRESS typically presents as fever, rash, and/or lymphadenopathy in conjunction with other organ system involvement including hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Early manifestations such as fever and lymphadenopathy may be present without evidence of a rash. Discontinue the NSAID in patients presenting with such signs and symptoms in whom an alternative etiology cannot be identified.


Reye's syndrome


Reye's syndrome has been reported with aspirin use. Aspirin may increase the risk of developing Reye syndrome, a rare but serious disease which can follow flu or chicken pox in children and adolescents. Reye syndrome has been reported in children of all ages; however, most of the reported cases have occurred in children 5 to 10 years. Data are not strong to support a dose-dependent association with Reyes syndrome; however, a case-controlled study reported that patients who developed Reye syndrome (n = 27) had received larger doses for a longer duration compared with controls who did not develop Reye syndrome. Of the patients who developed Reye syndrome, 67% were receiving more than 20 mg/kg/day of salicylates compared with only 22% of controls. Reye syndrome is a multisystem disorder evidenced by persistent vomiting, altered sensorium, elevated hepatic enzymes, hypoprothrombinemia, hyperammonemia, convulsions, and encephalopathy. If children are receiving chronic aspirin therapy, discontinue aspirin immediately if a fever develops, and do not resume aspirin until diagnosis confirms that the febrile viral illness has run its course and the absence of Reye syndrome.


infertility


NSAIDs, such as aspirin, may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.


Description

Aspirin, caffeine, and orphenadrine are used together in an oral preparation to treat pain and painful musculoskeletal conditions. This combination contains a salicylate analgesic for pain (aspirin), a CNS stimulant with minor analgesic activity (caffeine), and a centrally-acting muscle relaxant (orphenadrine). Orphenadrine does not act directly on skeletal muscles; instead, it acts through unclear mechanisms in the CNS to reduce excessive muscle tone. Orphenadrine also has anticholinergic effects that must be considered in therapy selection. A meta-analysis of available literature found insufficient evidence to determine the relative efficacy or safety of centrally-acting muscle relaxants including cyclobenzaprine, carisoprodol, orphenadrine, tizanidine, metaxalone, methocarbamol, and chlorzoxazone. This combination is approved for the symptomatic relief of mild to moderate pain of acute musculoskeletal disorders; the orphenadrine component is indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions.

Mechanism Of Action

Aspirin, ASA; caffeine; orphenadrine is a fixed-dose analgesic product containing aspirin, a salicylate analgesic; caffeine, a CNS stimulant with minor analgesic activity; and orphenadrine, a centrally acting analgesic with anticholinergic activity.
Aspirin, ASA: The activity of aspirin is due to its ability to inhibit cyclooxygenase (COX). In vivo, aspirin is hydrolyzed to salicylic acid and acetate. However, hydrolysis is not required for aspirin activity. Aspirin irreversibly inhibits COX. Aspirin is about 170-times more potent in inhibiting COX-1 than COX-2. In comparison, salicylic acid has little or no ability to inhibit COX in vitro despite inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis at the site of inflammation in vivo. The exact mechanism of prostaglandin inhibition by salicylic acid is unclear; however, salicylates produce the majority of classic NSAID effects.
Caffeine: Caffeine is a mild, direct stimulant at all levels of the CNS and also stimulates the heart and cardiovascular system. Caffeine also stimulates the medullary respiratory center and relaxes bronchial smooth muscle. Caffeine stimulates voluntary muscle and gastric acid secretion, increases renal blood flow, and is a mild diuretic.
Orphenadrine: The exact mechanism of action of orphenadrine has not been determined; however, it is known that orphenadrine does not have a direct skeletal muscle relaxant effect. Proposed analgesic actions are central/spinal and include antagonistic activity at the NMDA receptors and inhibition of voltage-gated sodium channels in sensory neurons. Orphenadrine does not produce myoneural block, nor does it affect crossed extensor reflexes. Orphenadrine prevents nicotine-induced convulsions but not those produced by strychnine.

Pharmacokinetics

Aspirin, ASA; caffeine; orphenadrine is administered orally. The pharmacokinetics of orphenadrine or of the combination have not been well studied; the addition of orphenadrine citrate does not alter the toxicity of aspirin and caffeine. No significant differences were observed in peak/trough levels, time to peak level, area under the curve, or mean steady-state level of salicylic acid in 24 volunteers administered aspirin, ASA; caffeine; orphenadrine versus aspirin alone.
Aspirin: Aspirin has a half-life of 15 to 20 minutes in adults as it is rapidly hydrolyzed by the liver to salicylic acid. Salicylic acid is primarily metabolized in the liver. Metabolites include salicyluric acid (glycine conjugate), the ether or phenolic glucuronide, and the ester or acyl glucuronide. Also, a small amount is metabolized to gentisic acid (2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic and 2,3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acids. Salicyluric acid and salicyl phenolic glucuronide are formed via saturable enzyme pathways, and therefore, exhibit non-linear pharmacokinetics. The elimination half-life of salicylic acid varies with dosage. Approximately 80% to 100% of the salicylic acid from a single salicylate dose is excreted within 24 to 72 hours in the urine as free salicylic acid (10%), salicyluric acid (75%), salicylic phenolic (10%) and acyl (5%) glucuronides, and gentisic acid (less than 1%). The excretion of free salicylic acid is variable and depends upon the dose and the urinary pH. In alkaline urine, greater than 30% of the dose may be eliminated as free salicylic acid, but in acidic urine, only about 2% is eliminated as free salicylic acid.
Caffeine: Therapeutic concentrations of caffeine have been reported to be 5 to 25 mg/L in adults. Caffeine is rapidly distributed to all body tissues and readily crosses the blood-brain barrier. It also distributes into breast milk. Caffeine is roughly 36% bound to plasma proteins, the volume of distribution is 630 mL/kg, and the clearance is 90 mL/hour/kg. Caffeine is partially metabolized in the liver via demethylation reactions dependent on the CYP-450 1A2 isoenzyme; major metabolites include paraxanthine (80%), theobromine (10%), and theophylline (4%). The plasma half-life is 3 to 7 hours in adults.
Orphenadrine: Distribution of orphenadrine is not fully understood. Animal data suggest that the drug and/or its metabolites are distributed to all organs, particularly those with high perfusion (e.g., lungs). Orphenadrine may cross the placenta. It is not known if the drug is distributed into human milk. The metabolism of orphenadrine has not been fully characterized; the drug is almost completely metabolized to at least 8 metabolites. Orphenadrine is excreted primarily in the urine as metabolites and, in small amounts, as unchanged drug. The elimination half-life of orphenadrine is approximately 14 hours.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Aspirin: Aspirin is absorbed orally via passive diffusion as unchanged drug and as hydrolyzed salicylic acid from the upper intestine and partly from the stomach. Approximately 70% of an aspirin dose reaches the circulation unchanged; the remaining 30% is hydrolyzed to salicylic acid during absorption by esterases in the GI tract, plasma, or liver. The rate of absorption is dependent upon many factors including oral formulation, gastric and intestinal pH, gastric emptying time, and the presence of food. Aspirin is rapidly absorbed following oral administration and bioavailability of regular aspirin in adults is approximately 40% to 50%.
Caffeine: Caffeine is well absorbed from the GI tract. Following oral administration, peak plasma concentrations in adults are reached within 50 to 75 minutes.
Orphenadrine: Orphenadrine is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Safety of continuous long-term therapy with aspirin; caffeine; orphenadrine has not been established; therefore, if this medication is prescribed for prolonged use, periodic monitoring of blood, urine, and liver function values is recommended.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

3080 mg/day PO aspirin, 240 mg/day PO caffeine, and 200 mg/day PO orphenadrine.

Geriatric

3080 mg/day PO aspirin, 240 mg/day PO caffeine, and 200 mg/day PO orphenadrine.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Aspirin 385mg, Caffeine 30mg, Orphenadrine Citrate 25mg Oral tablet

NORGESIC 25mg-385mg-30mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Dosage may need to be modified depending on clinical response and degree of hepatic impairment; however, no quantitative recommendations are available.

Renal Impairment

Dosage may need to be modified depending on clinical response and degree of renal impairment; however, no quantitative recommendations are available.

© 2026 Elsevier