=== Ensartinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5579)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ensartinib is an anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor; it also inhibits other kinases including MET and ROS1.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 225 mg PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, bleeding, epistaxis, gi bleeding, hematuria, hemoptysis, stroke, hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Ensartinib treatment is contraindicated in patients who have severe tartrazine dye hypersensitivity (FD and C Yellow No. Patient counseling: Advise patients to limit direct sun exposure, wear a hat and protective clothing, and use a broad-spectrum sunscreen and lip balm with a Sun Protection Factor (SPF) of 30 or... Emetic risk: Low

Brand Names
  - Ensacove

Dosage Forms
  - ENSACOVE 100mg Capsule
  - ENSACOVE 25mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of ALK-positive locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients who have not previously received an ALK-inhibitor
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          225 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with ensartinib significantly improved median progression-free survival compared with crizotinib (25.8 months vs. 12.7 months) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (eXALT3); the overall response rate was 74% (complete response [CR], 12%) versus 67% (CR, 5%), respectively, for a median duration that was not established in patients treated with ensartinib (95% CI, 22 months to not established) and 27.3 months in those who received crizotinib (95% CI, 12.9 months to not established). Overall survival results were immature. Twenty-six percent (26%) of patients had received prior chemotherapy for advanced disease. Of patients with measurable CNS disease at baseline, the CNS overall response rate was 59% (CR, 24%) in patients treated with ensartinib compared with 21% (CR, 8%) in who received crizotinib; the duration of CNS response was at least 12 months in 30% of patients who received ensartinib and in 40% of those who received crizotinib.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Ensartinib treatment is contraindicated in patients who have severe tartrazine dye hypersensitivity (FD and C Yellow No. 5). FD and C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) sensitivity is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use ensartinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with ensartinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt ensartinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid the use of ensartinib in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C; or total bilirubin greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN] and any AST); monitor patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B; or total bilirubin greater than 1.5 to 3 times ULN and any AST) for increased adverse reactions. Ensartinib is primarily metabolized by the liver; it has not been studied in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure, but these patients may have increased exposures. Additionally, ensartinib can cause hepatotoxicity including drug-induced liver injury. Monitor liver function tests including ALT, AST, and total bilirubin at baseline and every 2 weeks during the first cycle, then monthly and as clinically indicated thereafter. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary based on the severity of hepatotoxicity.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Use ensartinib with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus; new or worsening hyperglycemia commonly occurs during treatment. Assess fasting blood glucose prior to initiation of ensartinib therapy and monitor periodically thereafter. Antihyperglycemic medications should be started and medical management of blood glucose optimized as appropriate. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if adequate glycemic control cannot be achieved.
    Headline
    ocular disease
    General Information
    Use ensartinib with caution in patients with a history of ocular disease; visual impairment, photophobia, and photopsia have been reported in patients who received ensartinib. Advise patients to report any visual symptoms. Interrupt therapy and refer patients who experience a new or worsening visual disturbance for an ophthalmologic evaluation; a dose reduction or permanent discontinuation of ensartinib may be necessary in patients who develop persistent or severe ocular toxicity.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Ensartinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Oral administration of ensartinib to rats during organogenesis resulted in adverse developmental outcomes, including embryo-fetal mortality, dose-dependent delays in skeletal development (e.g., decreased or delayed ossification of vertebrae), and structural abnormalities (aortic dislocation, ventricular septal defect, separated vertebrae). Adverse embryo-fetal findings were observed at exposures approximately equivalent to or greater than the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with ensartinib. Ensartinib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant and those who can cause pregnancy in others to use effective contraception while taking ensartinib and for 1 week after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking ensartinib and for 1 week after the last dose. Ensartinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of ensartinib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Ensartinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Oral administration of ensartinib to rats during organogenesis resulted in adverse developmental outcomes, including embryo-fetal mortality, dose-dependent delays in skeletal development (e.g., decreased or delayed ossification of vertebrae), and structural abnormalities (aortic dislocation, ventricular septal defect, separated vertebrae). Adverse embryo-fetal findings were observed at exposures approximately equivalent to or greater than the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking ensartinib and for 1 week after the last dose. Ensartinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of ensartinib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with abrocitinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with adagrasib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with amiodarone due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with clarithromycin due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Asciminib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with asciminib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with atazanavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with atazanavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with cobicistat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with avacopan due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with azithromycin due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Belumosudil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with belumosudil due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with berotralstat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with bexarotene due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lenacapavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with bosentan due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with brigatinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and brigatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Cannabidiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with cannabidiol due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with capmatinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with carbamazepine due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Carvedilol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with carvedilol due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and carvedilol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with cenobamate due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ceritinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ciprofloxacin due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with clarithromycin due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with cobicistat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with conivaptan due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with crizotinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with cyclosporine due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with dabrafenib due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Danicopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with danicopan due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and danicopan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with daraxonrasib due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and daraxonrasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with daridorexant due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with darunavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with cobicistat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with darunavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with cobicistat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with darunavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with quinidine due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with diltiazem due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with dronedarone due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with duvelisib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with efavirenz due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with efavirenz due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with efavirenz due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with elacestrant due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and elacestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with elagolix due to the risk of altered ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with elagolix due to the risk of altered ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ivacaftor due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with eliglustat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with cobicistat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with cobicistat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with enasidenib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with encorafenib due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with enzalutamide due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with erdafitinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with erythromycin due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with eslicarbazepine due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with etravirine due to the risk of altered ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with fedratinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Flibanserin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with flibanserin due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and flibanserin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with fluconazole due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with fluvoxamine due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with fosamprenavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with fostamatinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with gilteritinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with glecaprevir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and glecaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with pibrentasvir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and pibrentasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during enasartinib treatment due to the risk of increased enasartinib exposure and adverse reactions. Enasartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Ibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ibrutinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and ibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with idelalisib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with imatinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with imlunestrant due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with isavuconazonium due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Istradefylline: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with istradefylline due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with itraconazole due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ivacaftor due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ketoconazole due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with clarithromycin due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lapatinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and lapatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lasmiditan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lasmiditan due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ledipasvir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and ledipasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with oral lefamulin due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lenacapavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with letermovir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Levacetylleucine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with levacetylleucine due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ketoconazole due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lomitapide due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lonafarnib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ritonavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ivacaftor due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of altered ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of altered ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Maribavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with maribavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with mavorixafor due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with mefloquine due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and mefloquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with mifepristone due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with mitapivat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with mitotane due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with nafcillin due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with nefazodone due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with nelfinavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with neratinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with netupitant due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with nilotinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ritonavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with nirogacestat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with rifabutin due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with osimertinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and osimertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with pacritinib due to the risk of altered ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with pexidartinib due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with pirtobrutinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and pirtobrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with posaconazole due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with pretomanid due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with primaquine due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Propafenone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with propafenone due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and propafenone is a P-gp inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with quinidine due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with quinine due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and quinine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ranolazine due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and ranolazine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with relacorilant due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with remibrutinib due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with repotrectinib due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ribociclib due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate inhibitor at doses of 400 mg/day.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ribociclib due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate inhibitor at doses of 400 mg/day.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with rifabutin due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with rifampin due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with rifapentine due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ritonavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Rolapitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with rolapitant due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and rolapitant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with saquinavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Sarecycline: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with sarecycline due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and sarecycline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with selpercatinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and selpercatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with sevabertinib due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with taurursodiol due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with velpatasvir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with velpatasvir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with voxilaprevir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and voxilaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with sorafenib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and sorafenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with sotorasib due to the risk of altered ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with sparsentan due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with St. John's wort due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Stiripentol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with stiripentol due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and stiripentol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with temsirolimus due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tepotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with tepotinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ivacaftor due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with tipranavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with verapamil due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Trofinetide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with trofinetide due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with tucatinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with vemurafenib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and vemurafenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with venetoclax due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and venetoclax is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with vepdegestrant due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with verapamil due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Vimseltinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with vimseltinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with voclosporin due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with clarithromycin due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with voriconazole due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with voxelotor due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with xanomeline due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Zonisamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with zonisamide due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and zonisamide is a P-gp inhibitor.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis occurred in 5% of patients treated with ensartinib in a pooled safety population of patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC (n = 458) (grade 3 or 4, 1.7%). Immediately interrupt therapy in patients with suspected ILD/pneumonitis; permanently discontinue therapy if ILD/pneumonitis is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough
    General Information
    Cough occurred in 31% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 16% of those who received crizotinib in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% vs. 0%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Ensartinib can cause hepatotoxicity, including drug-induced liver injury; 1 case of drug-induced liver injury was reported in ensartinib-treated patients in a pooled safety population of patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC (n = 458). Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (59%; grade 3, 5%) and increased AST (58%; grade 3, 1.8%) occurred in patients treated with ensartinib in the pooled safety population; the median time to first onset of transaminitis was 5.3 weeks. Hyperbilirubinemia has also occurred, with increased bilirubin reported in 12% of patients treated with ensartinib (grade 3 or 4, 2.5%). Increased alkaline phosphatase occurred in 64% of patients treated with ensartinib compared with 50% of those who received crizotinib in an open-label clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 2.2% vs. 0.7%). An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary based on the severity of hepatotoxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Hypoalbuminemia has been reported in patients treated with ensartinib, with a decrease from baseline in albumin levels reported in 46% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC treated with ensartinib in one clinical trial compared with 56% of those who received crizotinib (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% vs. 1.4%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acneiform rash, bullous rash, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, xerosis
    General Information
    Dermatologic adverse reactions occurred in 80% of patients treated with ensartinib in a pooled safety population of patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC (n = 458) (grade 3, 14%). Rash occurred in 72% of these patients (grade 3, 12%) including acneiform rash, bullous rash, eczema, exfoliative dermatitis, morbilliform rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), maculopapular rash, and vulvovaginal rash, with a median time to onset of 9 days. Pruritus occurred in 32% of ensartinib-treated patients in the pooled safety population (grade 3, 2.4%) and grade 1 photosensitivity in 0.9% of patients receiving ensartinib; there was 1 grade 3 case of drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) (0.2%). Xerosis was reported in 10% of advanced NSCLC patients treated with ensartinib compared with 0.7% of those who received crizotinib in 1 randomized, open-label trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% vs. 0%). If dermatologic reactions occur, treat with antihistamines, topical corticosteroids, or systemic corticosteroids based on the severity. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on severity of the reaction.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia
    General Information
    Alopecia occurred in 11% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 4.8% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bradycardia
    General Information
    Bradycardia (heart rate less than 60 beats per minute) occurred in 6% of patients treated with ensartinib in a pooled safety population of patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC (n = 458); all cases were grade 1 or 2. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia has been reported in patients treated with ensartinib, with 44% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSC experiencing increased blood glucose in a pooled safety population (n = 458) (grade 3, 2.5%). The median time to onset of increased blood glucose was 5.9 weeks. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    visual impairment
    General Information
    Visual impairment occurred in 8% of patients treated with ensartinib in a pooled safety population of patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC (n = 458) (grade 3, 0.2%). Obtain an ophthalmologic evaluation in patients with new or worsening visual symptoms during treatment. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary based on severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain occurred in 36% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 20% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial, including arthralgia, arthritis, back pain, bone pain, extremity pain, musculoskeletal discomfort, myalgia, neck pain, noncardiac chest pain, spinal pain, (grade 3 or 4, 1.4% vs. 0%). Additionally, increased creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels were reported in 43% of ensartinib-treated patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC in a pooled safety population with data available (n = 203) (grade 3 or 4, 2%) with a median time to onset of 123 days.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hyperuricemia
    General Information
    Hyperuricemia occurred in 6% of patients treated with ensartinib in a pooled safety population of patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC (n = 458) (grade 3 or 4, 1.1%). Severe (grade 3 or 4) increases from baseline in urate levels were reported in 39% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 27% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial. Initiate treatment with urate-lowering medications as clinically indicated; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary based on severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Constipation (31% vs. 26%) was reported more often in patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared to those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial. Nausea (28% vs. 30%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4% vs. 2.1%) and vomiting (16% vs. 32%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% vs. 0%) were also reported in patients who received ensartinib and crizotinib, respectively, in this trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Edema occurred in 27% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 28% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 2.1% vs. 2.1%), including eyelid edema, facial edema, generalized edema, eyelid edema, gravitational edema, localized edema, peripheral edema, and periorbital edema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue (including asthenia) occurred in 21% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 14% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% vs. 1.4%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever occurred in 22% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 10% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% vs. 0.7%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia
    General Information
    Decreased appetite or anorexia occurred in 15% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 12% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0% vs. 1.4%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, vertigo
    General Information
    Dizziness (including vertigo) occurred in 12% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 14% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% vs. 0.7%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysgeusia
    General Information
    Dysgeusia occurred in 10% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 11% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bleeding, epistaxis, GI bleeding, hematuria, hemoptysis, stroke
    General Information
    Bleeding or hemorrhage occurred in 10% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 4.8% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial, including anal hemorrhage, epistaxis, hematuria, gingival bleeding, hemoptysis, GI bleeding, intracranial hemorrhage (stroke), rectal hemorrhage, vaginal bleeding, and vitreous hemorrhage (grade 3 or 4, 1.4% vs. 0%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hemoptysis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Respiratory tract infection occurred in 13% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with ensartinib compared with 10% of those who received crizotinib in a randomized, open-label clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% vs. 0%); severe cases of pneumonia (4.9%) and cellulitis (1.4%) were also reported in patients treated with ensartinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Hypophosphatemia, hypocalcemia, and hyponatremia have been reported in patients treated with ensartinib in a randomized, open-label trial, including decreases from baseline in phosphate (39%; grade 3 or 4, 7%), calcium (36%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4%), and sodium (27%; grade 3 or 4, 4.3%). A grade 1 or 2 increase in creatinine from baseline was also reported in 37% of ensartinib-treated patients in this trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia
    General Information
    Lymphopenia and anemia have been reported in patients treated with ensartinib in a randomized, open-label trial, including decreases from baseline in lymphocytes (57%; grade 3 or 4, 7%) and hemoglobin (43%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Ensartinib is an anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor; it also inhibits other kinases including MET and ROS1. It is indicated for the treatment of ALK-positive locally advanced or metastatic non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) in adults who have not previously received an ALK-inhibitor. Ensartinib is contraindicated in patients who have experienced a severe reaction to FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine). Ensartinib was approved by the FDA in December 2024.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ensartinib is an anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor; it also inhibits other kinases including MET and ROS1. In vitro, ensartinib blocks ALK-mediated signaling pathways and inhibits proliferation in cell lines harboring ALK fusions and mutations by inhibiting phosphorylation of ALK and its downstream signaling proteins AKT, ERK, and S6. In vivo, ensartinib showed anti-tumor activity in a mouse xenograft model of human NSCLC harboring an ALK fusion.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    At the recommended dosage, ensartinib has a mean Cmax of 292 ng/mL (CV, 60%) and an AUC of 4,920 ng x hour /mL (CV, 62%). The median time to reach Cmax (Tmax) at steady-state is 3 hours; steady-state is reached within 15 days with a mean accumulation ration of 2.7. A high-fat meal (800 to 1,000 calories; greater than 50% fat) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ensartinib compared to fasted conditions.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than or equal to the upper limit of normal [ULN] and AST greater than ULN; OR total bilirubin 1 to 1.5 times ULN and any AST) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ensartinib. The effect of moderate or severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 1.5 times ULN and any AST) on the pharmacokinetics of ensartinib is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ensartinib. The effect of severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease (eGFR less than 15 mL/min) with or without hemodialysis on the pharmacokinetics of ensartinib is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (20 to 86 years) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ensartinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ensartinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (Asian, White) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ensartinib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (38 to 148 kg) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ensartinib.
  Text
  Ensartinib is administered orally. Ensartinib is 91.6% bound to human plasma protein; the mean apparent volume of distribution of ensartinib is 1,720 liters (CV, 42%). The mean half-life of ensartinib is 30 hours (standard deviation, 20 hours). After a single 200-mg radiolabeled dose, 91% of radioactivity was recovered in the feces (38% as unchanged drug) and 10% in the urine (4.4% as unchanged drug).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
Ensartinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A in vitro; it is also a P-gp substrate. Although concomitant use with CYP3A inhibitors or inducers or P-gp inhibitors has not been studied clinically, concomitant use may affect ensartinib pharmacokinetics based upon a mechanistic understanding.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
Patient Counseling
Advise patients to limit direct sun exposure, wear a hat and protective clothing, and use a broad-spectrum sunscreen and lip balm with a Sun Protection Factor (SPF) of 30 or greater to protect against sunburn while taking ensartinib and for at least 1 week after discontinuation.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Ensartinib may be given with or without food.
Swallow capsules whole; do not crush, chew, open, or dissolve the contents of the capsules.
If a dose is missed, administer the missed dose as soon as possible unless the next dose is due within 12 hours. Do not give 2 doses on the same day.
If vomiting occurs, do not administer an additional dose; give the next dose at its scheduled time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    225 mg PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    225 mg PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than or equal to the upper limit of normal [ULN] and AST greater than ULN; OR total bilirubin 1 to 1.5 times ULN and any AST): No dosage adjustment is recommended.
Moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 1.5 to 3 times ULN and any AST): No dosage adjustment is recommended. Monitor patients for an increased incidence of adverse reactions and reduce the dose as clinically indicated.
Severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN and any AST): Avoid the use of ensartinib.
 
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
Grade 3 or 4 increase in AST or ALT (greater than 5 times ULN) with concurrent total bilirubin less than or equal to 2 times ULN: Hold ensartinib therapy. Upon transaminase recovery to grade 1 or less (less than or equal to 3 times ULN) or baseline, resume therapy at the next lower dose level.
Grade 2 to 4 increase in AST or ALT (greater than 3 times ULN) with concurrent total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN in the absence of cholestasis or hemolysis: Permanently discontinue ensartinib therapy.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
