=== Levodopa (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1402)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Levodopa (L-dopa) is an aromatic amine that is metabolized to dopamine.

Routes: inhalation; Common adult doses: Generally, 8 grams/day PO; 420 mg/day via oral inhalation.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): akathisia, dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, involuntary movements, myoclonia, trismus, alopecia, angioedema, bullous rash, flushing, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, purpura, rash, urticaria, dysgeusia, gi bleeding, hiccups, hypersalivation, peptic ulcer, teeth grinding (bruxism), weight gain, weight loss, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, phlebitis, sinus tachycardia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Levodopa is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to the medication.Avoid abrupt discontinuation of levodopa therapy. Sporadic cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome have been associated with dose reductions and withdrawal of levodopa.

Brand Names
  - INBRIJA
  - Larodopa

Dosage Forms
  - INBRIJA 42mg Powder for Inhalation
  - Levodopa Bulk powder
  - Levodopa Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        84 mg inhaled by mouth as needed for "off" symptoms up to 5 times daily. The dose should be taken when symptoms of an "off" period start to return. Max: 420 mg/day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of "off" episodes in Parkinson disease as an adjunct to carbidopa/levodopa

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Levodopa is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to the medication.Avoid abrupt discontinuation of levodopa therapy. Sporadic cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome have been associated with dose reductions and withdrawal of levodopa. Patients should be closely monitored if abrupt reduction or discontinuation of levodopa therapy is required, especially if they are also receiving neuroleptics. Patients should be observed closely for manifestations of this symptom complex including tachycardia, muscular rigidity, elevation of body temperature, mental status changes, diaphoresis, tachypnea, and increases in serum creatinine levels. Cases of neuroleptic malignant syndrome have been reported post-surgery so close monitoring is warranted; reinstitute levodopa therapy as soon as possible post-surgery. In addition, some patients receiving levodopa have experienced postoperative bleeding episodes, so hematological studies are recommended for all patients who undergo surgery while receiving this drug.Levodopa should be administered with extreme caution to patients with cardiac disease. Levodopa should be used with caution in patients a history of myocardial infarction who have residual cardiac arrhythmias (i.e., atrial, nodal, or ventricular arrhythmias). Cardiac monitoring in a facility with provisions for intensive cardiac care is recommended during initial titration of levodopa in patients with significant cardiac disease.Levodopa should be used with caution in patients with a history of bronchial asthma and emphysema on sympathomimetic therapies; levodopa has additional sympathomimetic effects. Because levodopa may alter breathing patterns or respiratory rates in some patients, it should be used under careful observation in patients with severe pulmonary disease.Levodopa should be administered with caution to patients with renal disease or hepatic disease.Levodopa may increase the risk of upper GI hemorrhage in patients with a history of active peptic ulcer disease, so it should be used with extreme caution in such patients.Levodopa can cause mental status or nervous system changes. The elderly may be more susceptible to the CNS effects of levodopa, especially when initiating therapy or increasing dosages. All patients receiving the drug should be monitored closely for signs of mental disturbances including depression and/or suicidal ideation. Levodopa should be used with caution in patients with a history of a seizure disorder or known psychosis or other psychiatric illness. Concomitant use of non-selective MAOI therapy with levodopa can result in hypertensive crisis, and simultaneous use of these agents is contraindicated. Non-selective MAOIs should be discontinued 2—4 weeks before initiation of levodopa combination therapy (see Drug Interactions).Patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored during levodopa therapy. Alterations in blood glucose may occur in some individuals as a result of the sympathomimetic effects of levodopa. Levodopa may cause a false-positive reaction for urinary ketone bodies when a test tape is used for determination of ketonuria. False-negative tests may result with use of glucose-oxidase methods of testing for glucosuria.Levodopa is contraindicated for use in patients with closed-angle glaucoma. Levodopa may be used in patients with open-angle glaucoma if intraocular pressure is closely monitored and controlled.Levodopa can activate melanoma, so the drug is contraindicated in patients with a history of melanoma, or in patients with suspicious, undiagnosed pigmented lesions.Levodopa is considered a FDA pregnancy risk category C agent. Although animal reproduction studies have shown adverse fetal effects due to levodopa administration, none have been observed in a limited number of human pregnancies. Levodopa does cross the placenta, and there is no information on the effect of chronic in utero exposure to levodopa. Therefore, in making the decision to administer this drug during pregnancy, the potential risks to the fetus must be weighed against the potential benefits to the mother.Levodopa should not be given to lactating women who are breast-feeding their infants. It is not known if levodopa is distributed into breast milk, however, levodopa inhibits lactation by inhibiting prolactin release. The suppression of milk production by levodopa may be partial or complete.The safety and efficacy of levodopa in children have not been established.Rarely, falsely diagnosed pheochromocytoma has been reported in patients receiving levodopa. Caution should be exercised with interpreting the plasma and urine levels of catecholamines and catecholamine metabolites in patients on levodopa.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    dyskinesia
    General Information
    Levodopa may cause or exacerbate pre-existing dyskinesia. If worsening of dyskinesias occurs during treatment, a reduction in the dose of dopaminergic medication or discontinuation of treatment may be necessary.
    Headline
    psychotic disorder
    General Information
    Due to the risk of hallucinations and exacerbating psychosis, patients with a major psychotic disorder should ordinarily not be treated with levodopa. In addition, medications that antagonize the effects of dopamine used to treat psychosis may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson disease and may decrease the effectiveness of levodopa. People receiving levodopa should be monitored closely for psychiatric effects, which may present shortly after initiation of therapy. Hallucinations may be responsive to dose reduction of the medication or other concomitantly administered medications.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, sleep disorder
    General Information
    Levodopa has the potential to cause drowsiness or somnolence. In some cases, excessive drowsiness has resulted in automobile accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living. Advise patients of this effect and instruct them to use extreme caution when driving or operating machinery or performing other activities requiring coordination and concentration while receiving levodopa therapy. Reassessment for drowsiness or oversedation is necessary throughout therapy, as these symptoms may go unnoticed unless specifically asked about. Inform patients of the risk of sudden sleep before starting therapy and advise them to avoid hazardous activities, especially if they have a sleep disorder (e.g., narcolepsy, sleep apnea) or are taking alcohol or other CNS depressants, as these factors may increase the risk of sudden sleep onset. If a patient develops significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.), consider levodopa discontinuation. There is insufficient data to establish if dose reduction will eliminate sudden episodes of falling asleep.
    Headline
    chronic lung disease
    General Information
    Levodopa for oral inhalation is not recommended for use in patients with asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or other underlying chronic lung disease due to the risk of bronchospasm.
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Levodopa may cause increased intraocular pressure in individuals with glaucoma; monitor for increased intraocular pressure during therapy with levodopa.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Levodopa should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the fetus. There are no adequate or well-controlled studies regarding the developmental risks to the fetus from levodopa use during human pregnancy. Levodopa/carbidopa therapy has been shown to be developmentally toxic in animal studies. When administered to pregnant rabbits throughout organogenesis, the combination caused both visceral and skeletal malformations in rabbits. No teratogenic effects were observed when carbidopa/levodopa was administered to pregnant mice; there was a decrease in the number of live pups delivered by rats receiving carbidopa/levodopa during organogenesis. Levodopa crosses the placenta in humans and reaches levels in the fetus comparable to maternal blood, although pregnancy outcomes have been primarily unremarkable. Two miscarriages were reported in the first trimester during use of carbidopa/levodopa, and one infant exposed to levodopa in utero was reported to have osteomalacia. One case of neonatal seizure occurred after use of bromocriptine plus carbidopa/levodopa/entacapone during pregnancy.  Maternal complications reported in three pregnancies during use of levodopa in combination with carbidopa included first trimester vaginal bleeding, third trimester nausea and vomiting, depression, and preeclampsia. The effects of levodopa in labor and delivery are unknown. One case describes a patient who became pregnant on two separate occasions while receiving levodopa and cabergoline for Parkinson's disease. The medications were continued throughout the pregnancies. There were no fetal complications; however, cesarean section was required in the second birth due to placental abruption.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Excretion of levodopa into human breast milk has been reported, and caution is advisable in breast-feeding mothers. Because levodopa can inhibit prolactin secretion, interference with proper lactation is possible; however, there are limited data about this potential in lactating women. Partial to complete suppression of lactation has been observed in female patients given levodopa for galactorrhea. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.& If levodopa must be administered during breast-feeding, the infant should be monitored for commonly encountered adverse effects associated with dopaminergic therapy including dyskinesias, insomnia, sedation, nausea, and constipation. In one case report of a breast-feeding mother with Parkinson's disease receiving sustained-release carbidopa/levodopa 50/200 mg 4 times daily, peak levels of levodopa in milk occurred 3 hours after a dose and returned to baseline after 6 hours. After receiving the same dose of the immediate-release (IR) formulation, similar results were observed, with the exception of higher milk: plasma ratios with the IR product (0.32 vs. 0.28). The infant ingested 0.127 mg and 0.181 mg of levodopa after maternal intake of the sustained-release and immediate-release products, respectively. It was estimated that the infant received an average of 0.3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dosage of the sustained release product and 0.5% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose of the immediate-release product. No adverse effects were observed in her infant, whose development was normal at 2 years of age.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Levodopa should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the fetus. There are no adequate or well-controlled studies regarding the developmental risks to the fetus from levodopa use during human pregnancy. Levodopa/carbidopa therapy has been shown to be developmentally toxic in animal studies. When administered to pregnant rabbits throughout organogenesis, the combination caused both visceral and skeletal malformations in rabbits. No teratogenic effects were observed when carbidopa/levodopa was administered to pregnant mice; there was a decrease in the number of live pups delivered by rats receiving carbidopa/levodopa during organogenesis. Levodopa crosses the placenta in humans and reaches levels in the fetus comparable to maternal blood, although pregnancy outcomes have been primarily unremarkable. Two miscarriages were reported in the first trimester during use of carbidopa/levodopa, and one infant exposed to levodopa in utero was reported to have osteomalacia. One case of neonatal seizure occurred after use of bromocriptine plus carbidopa/levodopa/entacapone during pregnancy.  Maternal complications reported in three pregnancies during use of levodopa in combination with carbidopa included first trimester vaginal bleeding, third trimester nausea and vomiting, depression, and preeclampsia. The effects of levodopa in labor and delivery are unknown. One case describes a patient who became pregnant on two separate occasions while receiving levodopa and cabergoline for Parkinson's disease. The medications were continued throughout the pregnancies. There were no fetal complications; however, cesarean section was required in the second birth due to placental abruption.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Excretion of levodopa into human breast milk has been reported, and caution is advisable in breast-feeding mothers. Because levodopa can inhibit prolactin secretion, interference with proper lactation is possible; however, there are limited data about this potential in lactating women. Partial to complete suppression of lactation has been observed in female patients given levodopa for galactorrhea. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.& If levodopa must be administered during breast-feeding, the infant should be monitored for commonly encountered adverse effects associated with dopaminergic therapy including dyskinesias, insomnia, sedation, nausea, and constipation. In one case report of a breast-feeding mother with Parkinson's disease receiving sustained-release carbidopa/levodopa 50/200 mg 4 times daily, peak levels of levodopa in milk occurred 3 hours after a dose and returned to baseline after 6 hours. After receiving the same dose of the immediate-release (IR) formulation, similar results were observed, with the exception of higher milk: plasma ratios with the IR product (0.32 vs. 0.28). The infant ingested 0.127 mg and 0.181 mg of levodopa after maternal intake of the sustained-release and immediate-release products, respectively. It was estimated that the infant received an average of 0.3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dosage of the sustained release product and 0.5% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose of the immediate-release product. No adverse effects were observed in her infant, whose development was normal at 2 years of age.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Amisulpride: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as amisulpride. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of CNS toxicity, such as restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness, if concomitant use of levodopa and bupropion is necessary. Both medications have dopamine agonist effects and use may increase the risk for dopamine-related adverse reactions.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of CNS toxicity, such as restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness, if concomitant use of levodopa and bupropion is necessary. Both medications have dopamine agonist effects and use may increase the risk for dopamine-related adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Captopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of CNS toxicity, such as restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness, if concomitant use of levodopa and bupropion is necessary. Both medications have dopamine agonist effects and use may increase the risk for dopamine-related adverse reactions.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as doxazosin, is necessary. A doxazosin dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as droperidol. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as eplerenone, is necessary. An eplerenone dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as epoprostenol, is necessary. An epoprostenol dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients who are receiving carbidopa; levodopa biphasic release capsules to avoid taking their medication with alcohol. Alcohol interferes with this product's unique release mechanism resulting in a more rapid release of carbidopa; levodopa which may acutely increase the risk for adverse effects and decrease carbidopa; levodopa's duration of action. Dose dumping was observed in the presence of 40% ethanol (80 proof) in a dissolution study but was not observed with lower ethanol concentrations. Additionally, alcohol consumption with levodopa may increase the risk for somnolence and sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions. (Major) Many levodopa products may be taken with or without food. Follow the directions of the product prescribed. However, foods with a high protein content may delay or impair the oral absorption of levodopa and may reduce efficacy. The Parkinson's Foundation states that most patients have no problem taking levodopa-containing products with meals, but some experience less benefit if they take such products with a stomach full of protein (including meats, cheeses and other dairy products). When this occurs, it is recommended to only take carbidopa/levodopa along with non-protein foods. For patients with more advanced PD, it is best to take levodopa-containing medications 30 to 60 minutes before eating a meal to limit food interference. If nausea occurs, the products may be taken with a small non-protein snack, such as fruit or a cracker, to help. (Major) Patients with Parkinson's disease should avoid foods high in fat around the time of taking carbidopa; levodopa. These foods may delay gastric emptying, which can decrease and delay the absorption of levodopa. (Major) Patients with Parkinson's disease should avoid foods high in fiber around the time of taking carbidopa; levodopa. These foods may delay gastric emptying, which can decrease and delay the absorption of levodopa.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and phenytoin. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as gabapentin. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as haloperidol. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as iloprost, is necessary. An iloprost dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Iron: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and isoniazid. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Linezolid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as linezolid, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of linezolid before initiating levodopa.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Losartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as loxapine. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of macimorelin and levodopa. Consider allowing at least 12 hours, or 5 medication half-lives, to elapse after levodopa administration before using macimorelin. Levodopa may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations and interfere with macimorelin test results.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as mecamylamine, is necessary. A mecamylamine dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Methadone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Methylene Blue: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as metoclopramide. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Molindone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as molindone. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
Morphine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and papaverine. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as phenoxybenzamine, is necessary. A phenoxybenzamine dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and phenytoin. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as pimozide. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Polysaccharide-Iron Complex: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as prazosin, is necessary. A prazosin dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as pregabalin. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Primidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Procarbazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as procarbazine, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of procarbazine before initiating levodopa.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Minor) If levodopa is administered without carbidopa, monitor for reduced levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of pyridoxine (vitamin B6). Pyridoxine in doses of 10 mg to 25 mg may promote extracerebral degradation of levodopa which may reduce its efficacy. Carbidopa inhibits this effect of pyridoxine.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monitor for orthostatic hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and selective monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitors, such as rasagiline, is necessary.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Rotigotine: (Minor) Monitor for new or worsening dyskinesias during concomitant use of rotigotine and levodopa. Rotigotine use may potentiate the dopaminergic effects of levodopa in some patients, worsening the incidence and severity of dyskinesias. The incidence of adverse effects increases with increasing dose.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Sapropterin: (Moderate) Monitor patients for neurologic adverse effects, such as seizures, over-stimulation, and irritability, during concomitant use of sapropterin and levodopa. Concomitant use has been associated with changes in neurologic status, especially in patients with underlying neurological disorders.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for orthostatic hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and selective monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitors, such as selegiline, is necessary.
Sepiapterin: (Moderate) Monitor for neurologic adverse effects, such as seizures, over-stimulation, and irritability, during concomitant use of sepiapterin and levodopa. Sepiapterin may increase the availability of tyrosine, a levodopa precursor, which may increase the risk for levodopa-related adverse effects.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as levodopa.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as tetrabenazine. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions. While concomitant use is generally not recommended for this reason, combination therapy may be beneficial in the management of some levodopa-related dyskinesias.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as thiothixene. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as treprostinil, is necessary. A treprostinil dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Minor) If levodopa is administered without carbidopa, monitor for reduced levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of pyridoxine (vitamin B6). Pyridoxine in doses of 10 mg to 25 mg may promote extracerebral degradation of levodopa which may reduce its efficacy. Carbidopa inhibits this effect of pyridoxine.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Dyskinesia and sporadic movements are the most common of the serious effects of levodopa therapy and include choreiform reaction and dystonic reaction. These effects occur in up to 80% of patients receiving levodopa therapy for >= 3 years. Involuntary movements, including chewing, bruxism, gnawing, twisting, protrusion of the tongue, opening and closing the mouth, bobbing of the head, rhythmic movements of the feet or hands, quick movements of the shoulder, and ballismus, have been. These movements occur while levodopa is effective and may indicate supersensitivity to the dopaminergic effects of levodopa. Blepharospasm (which may indicate toxicity), muscle twitching, ataxia, myoclonia during sleep, and hand tremor also have been reported. The occurrence of dyskinesias may require dosage reduction. Peak-dose (occurring at times of peak levodopa plasma levels) and diphasic (occurring when levodopa levels are increasing or decreasing) dyskinesias may also occur.
 
'Bradykinetic episodes' or 'on-off' phenomena, including akinesia, sudden return of effectiveness, and akinesia paradoxica, can occur during levodopa therapy and is likely due to both disease progression and excessive levodopa dosage. The bradykinetic episode, a sudden lack of effectiveness with concomitant akinesia, can last from 1 minute to an hour. Bradykinesia may be followed by a sudden return of effectiveness, and the cycle may occur many times a day. Increasing the frequency of levodopa administration can minimize this effect in some patients by providing less dose-to-dose variation in CNS levodopa levels. Akinesia paradoxica or freezing is an abrupt hypotonic reaction resulting in a short-lived interruption of motor function. Akinesia paradoxic is most problematic if it occurs when the patient is walking, and may cause a fall. The etiology of the freezing episodes is not well understood. The response to levodopa decreases over time and many patients develop 'wearing-off' fluctuations of their symptoms. Wearing-off occurs during the day and consists of a gradual onset of parkinsonian symptoms before the next levodopa dose takes effect, usually 1—3 hours after the last dose.
 
Diaphoresis can be seen during levodopa therapy, although drenching sweats may also be a sign of Parkinson's disease. Lowering the levodopa dosage may be effective or, if medically appropriate, a beta-blocker may be used to decrease diaphoresis.
 
Psychiatric disturbances can occur with the administration of levodopa including agitation, anxiety, confusion, dizziness, headache, euphoria, fatigue, insomnia, malaise, memory loss, nervousness, nightmares, restlessness, and daytime somnolence. Mental depression also has been reported, as well as suicidal ideation, dementia, toxic delirium, hallucinations, paranoid delusion, psychosis, and hypomania. Nocturnal effects may be improved by reducing or stopping the last evening dose or giving the last dose earlier in the evening. Levodopa-induced psychiatric effects tend to be progressive and frequently a compromise must be reached between psychiatric effects and control of Parkinson symptoms.
 
Adverse GI effects are common during levodopa therapy and include nausea/vomiting, anorexia, and weight loss. The incidence of GI effects is much higher at the initiation of therapy. Levodopa should be administered with food until tolerance develops to the GI effects, then administration can be changed to 30 minutes before or one hour after meals. However, it should be noted that foods, especially high-protein or high-fat foods, could interfere with levodopa absorption.
 
Elevated hepatic enzymes including hyperbilirubinemia have been reported with levodopa. Abnormalities in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and positive Coombs test have also been reported. Commonly, the levels of BUN, creatinine, and uric acid are lower during administration of levodopa combinations than with levodopa alone.
 
Orthostatic hypotension is a frequent adverse effect of levodopa therapy, especially in the elderly. Tolerance usually develops within a few months, but some patients may require a dosage reduction. Cardiac arrhythmias, usually tachycardia, also can occur due to levodopa effects in the periphery, but are relatively infrequent. Beta-blockers have been effective in treating these arrhythmias. Flushing, hypertension, and palpitations have also been reported.
 
Saliva, sweat, or urine discoloration may be noted during levodopa therapy. The dark color (red, brown, or black) appears to be clinically insignificant, but may stain garments and other fabrics.
 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome can develop following abrupt discontinuation or dose reduction of levodopa, especially in patients receiving antipsychotic agents concomitantly. Patients should be observed closely for manifestations of this symptom complex, which includes tachycardia, muscular rigidity, elevation of body temperature, mental changes, diaphoresis, tachypnea, and increases in serum creatinine levels. The early diagnosis of this condition is important for the appropriate management of these patients.
 
Other adverse effects associated with levodopa include bizarre breathing patterns, GI bleeding, GI/peptic ulcer, hoarseness, episodic hyperventilation, and increased nasal secretions. Urinary retention, polyuria, and urinary incontinence also have been reported. Agranulocytosis, leukopenia, non-hemolytic and hemolytic anemia, and thrombocytopenia although infrequent, can occur during levodopa therapy and warrants temporary discontinuance of the drug.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    akathisia, dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, involuntary movements, myoclonia, trismus
    General Information
    Dyskinesia, a hyperkinetic movement disorder, is the most common of the serious effects of levodopa therapy and includes abnormal involuntary movements such as chorea, myoclonia, tics, akathisia, and dystonic reaction (e.g., trismus, oculogyric crisis). Involuntary movements, including chewing, bruxism, gnawing, twisting, protrusion of the tongue, opening and closing the mouth, bobbing of the head or body swaying movements (stereotypies), rhythmic movements of the feet or hands, quick movements of the shoulder, and ballismus, have been reported. Based on the temporal relation to dosing, levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) can be classified as peak-dose dyskinesia (occurring at times of peak levodopa plasma levels), diphasic dyskinesia (occurring when levodopa levels are increasing or decreasing), and off-period dystonia (inter-dose wearing off periods). Peak-dose dyskinesia accounts for more than 80% of cases involving LID, followed by off-period dystonia which affects 30% of patients, and diphasic dyskinesia which affects 20% of patients; combinations of these dyskinesias may occur in an individual patient. The development of peak-dose dyskinesias may require dosage reduction. The risk of dyskinesias is inversely related to the age of Parkinson's disease (PD) onset; patients with young-onset PD have the highest frequency of LID. Other factors that contribute to the risk of LID include more advanced PD, longer duration of disease and treatment with levodopa, a higher dose of levodopa, female gender, lower body weight, and weight loss. During a controlled trial of inhalational levodopa in adults with Parkinson's disease using an average of 2 doses per day, dyskinesia occurred in 4% of patients receiving levodopa and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      dystonic reaction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      involuntary movements
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myoclonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      trismus
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      akathisia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    akinesia
    General Information
    'Bradykinetic episodes' or 'on-off' phenomena, including akinesia, sudden return of effectiveness, and akinesia paradoxica, can occur during levodopa therapy and is likely due to both disease progression and excessive levodopa dosage. The bradykinetic episode, a sudden lack of effectiveness with concomitant akinesia, can last from 1 minute to an hour. Bradykinesia may be followed by a sudden return of effectiveness, and the cycle may occur many times a day. Increasing the frequency of levodopa administration can minimize this effect in some patients by providing less dose-to-dose variation in CNS levodopa levels. Akinesia paradoxica or freezing is an abrupt hypotonic reaction resulting in a short-lived interruption of motor function. Akinesia paradoxic is most problematic if it occurs when the patient is walking, and may cause a fall. The etiology of the freezing episodes is not well understood. The response to levodopa decreases over time and many patients develop 'wearing-off' fluctuations of their symptoms. Wearing-off occurs during the day and consists of a gradual onset of parkinsonian symptoms before the next levodopa dose takes effect, usually 1 to 3 hours after the last dose.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      akinesia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    alopecia, angioedema, bullous rash, flushing, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, purpura, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions to levodopa have included angioedema, urticaria, pruritus, Henoch-Schonlein purpura, and bullous rash (including pemphigus-like reactions). Other dermatologic effects that have been reported during treatment with oral levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa include rash, alopecia, hyperhidrosis, and flushing. For increased sweating, lowering the levodopa dosage may be effective or, if medically appropriate, a beta-blocker may be used to decrease hyperhidrosis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    abnormal dreams, agitation, anxiety, ataxia, confusion, delirium, depression, dizziness, euphoria, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, memory impairment, nightmares, paranoia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, psychosis, restlessness, seizures, suicidal ideation, tremor
    General Information
    Hallucinations were reported in less than 2% of patients treated with inhalational levodopa in clinical trials. Hallucinations may be responsive to reducing levodopa therapy. Hallucinations may be accompanied by confusion, insomnia, and excessive or abnormal dreams. Abnormal thinking and behavior may present with 1 or more symptoms, including paranoia or paranoid ideation, delusions, hallucinations, confusion, psychotic-like behavior (psychosis), disorientation, aggressive behavior, agitation, and delirium. During controlled trials of inhalational levodopa in adults using an average of 2 doses per day, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving levodopa and more frequently than with placebo: headache (2%) and insomnia (2%). CNS and psychiatric effects that have been reported with oral levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa include agitation, anxiety, depression, suicidal ideation, dementia, toxic delirium, hallucinations, psychosis, paranoia, delusions, confusion, euphoria, decreased mental acuity, memory impairment, nervousness, nightmares, abnormal dreams, restlessness, and disorientation. Other centrally-mediated effects include ataxia, dizziness, falls, headache, insomnia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, abnormal gait, somnolence, tremor, extrapyramidal disorder, and activation of latent Horner's syndrome. Seizures have been reported; however, causality to the drug has not been established. Nocturnal effects may be improved by reducing or stopping the last evening dose or giving the last dose earlier in the evening. Levodopa-induced psychiatric effects tend to be progressive and frequently a compromise must be reached between psychiatric effects and control of Parkinson symptoms.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      abnormal dreams
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paranoia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, dysphagia, flatulence, GI bleeding, hiccups, hypersalivation, nausea, peptic ulcer, teeth grinding (bruxism), vomiting, weight gain, weight loss, xerostomia
    General Information
    Adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects are common during levodopa therapy and frequently include nausea/vomiting, anorexia, and weight loss. The incidence of GI effects is much higher at the initiation of therapy. Oral levodopa should be administered with food until tolerance develops to the GI effects, then administration can be changed to 30 minutes before or one hour after meals. However, it should be noted that foods, especially high-protein or high-fat foods, may interfere with oral levodopa absorption. Serious events including GI bleeding and peptic ulcer have been reported rarely during oral levodopa therapy. Other GI effects reported during treatment with oral levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa include diarrhea, constipation, dyspepsia, xerostomia, weight gain, GI pain, dysphagia, hypersalivation, flatulence, teeth grinding (bruxism), burning sensation of the tongue, hiccups, and dysgeusia. During a controlled trial of inhalational levodopa in adults with Parkinson's disease using an average of 2 doses per day, the following adverse GI effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving levodopa and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients: nausea (5%) and vomiting (3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hiccups
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      teeth grinding (bruxism)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, phlebitis, sinus tachycardia, syncope
    General Information
    Orthostatic hypotension is a frequent adverse effect of levodopa therapy, especially in the elderly. Tolerance usually develops within a few months, but some patients may require a dosage reduction. Cardiac arrhythmias or rate disturbances, usually sinus tachycardia, also can occur due to levodopa effects in the periphery, but are relatively infrequent. Beta-blockers have been effective in treating these arrhythmias, if they occur. Other cardiac effects, including hypotension, syncope, phlebitis, hypertension, palpitations, and myocardial infarction, have been reported during treatment with oral levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa. During a controlled trial of inhalational levodopa in adults with Parkinson's disease using an average of 2 doses per day, orthostatic hypotension/decreased blood pressure occurred in 2% of patients receiving levodopa and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      phlebitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    urine discoloration
    General Information
    Discoloration of body fluids, including respiratory secretions, saliva, sweat, or urine discoloration can occur during levodopa therapy. The dark color (red, brown, or black) appears to be clinically insignificant, but may stain garments and other fabrics. During a controlled trial of inhalational levodopa in adults with Parkinson's disease using an average of 2 doses per day, discolored sputum occurred in 5% of patients receiving levodopa and discolored nasal discharge occurred in 2% of patients receiving levodopa; neither of these effects occurred in placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urine discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, hoarseness, infection, pharyngitis
    General Information
    Adverse respiratory effects that have been associated with oral levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa include dyspnea, pharyngeal pain, cough, bizarre breathing patterns, upper respiratory infection, and hoarseness. During premarketing evaluation of inhalational levodopa in adults with Parkinson's disease using an average of 2 doses per day, the following respiratory effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving levodopa and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients: cough (15%), oropharyngeal pain (2%), upper respiratory tract infection (6%), naso-pharyngitis (3%), and bronchitis/pneumonia (2%). In one controlled trial of inhalational levodopa, 25 healthy adults with mild to moderate asthma on stable regimens of asthma medications received 84 mg of inhalational levodopa or placebo every 4 hours for a total of 3 doses. Cough was the most frequently reported adverse effect, occurring in 60% of patients receiving inhalational levodopa vs. 0% of those patients receiving placebo. Ten subjects in the levodopa group had reductions in FEV1 from baseline (reduction between 15% to 59%) versus four subjects in the placebo group; the FEV1 reductions remained asymptomatic and did not require rescue treatment. A choking sensation immediately following administration has been reported during postmarketing use. Because of the risk of bronchospasm, inhalational levodopa is not recommended in patients with asthma, chronic obstructive lung disease, or other chronic lung disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hoarseness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    vitamin B6 deficiency
    General Information
    Levodopa is a pyridoxine antagonist and may lead to vitamin B6 deficiency. Administering vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) may be beneficial in preventing depletion and reducing adverse reactions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vitamin B6 deficiency
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Adverse hematological effects that have been reported during treatment with oral levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa include agranulocytosis, leukopenia, non-hemolytic and hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, decreased white blood cell count, and decreased hemoglobin or hematocrit. Development of severe hematological effects warrants discontinuation of the drug.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hemolytic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hematuria, increased urinary frequency, priapism, urinary incontinence, urinary retention
    General Information
    Adverse genitourinary (GU) effects that have been reported during treatment with oral levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa include urinary retention, increased urinary frequency, urinary tract infection, urinary incontinence, priapism, leukocyturia, hematuria, and bacteriuria.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    drowsiness, sudden sleep onset
    General Information
    Sudden sleep onset has been reported in patient receiving levodopa. Some incidents have occurred while the patient was driving or performing other potentially hazardous activities. In some cases excessive drowsiness due to levodopa has resulted in auto accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living. Sudden sleep onset has occurred more than one year after the initiation of treatment in some cases. Prior to initiating treatment with levodopa, patients should be advised of the potential to develop somnolence and specifically asked about factors that may increase the risk of experiencing such an event such as coadministration with other CNS depressants, ethanol ingestion, or the presence of sleep disorders (e.g., narcolepsy, sleep apnea). Patients should be cautioned against driving or operating machinery, or performing other tasks that require alertness, until they gauge how levodopa affects their motor performance. Reassessment for drowsiness or oversedation is necessary throughout levodopa therapy because patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities. If a patient develops significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.), consider discontinuation of levodopa. If a decision is made to continue the drug, patients should be advised to avoid driving or other potentially dangerous activities. There is insufficient information to establish that dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      sudden sleep onset
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    impulse control symptoms
    General Information
    Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone, including levodopa, have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving levodopa. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving levodopa. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered if impulse control symptoms occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impulse control symptoms
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, asthenia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, fatigue, hot flashes, malaise, skin laceration
    General Information
    During a controlled trial of inhalational levodopa in adults with Parkinson's disease using an average of 2 doses per day, the following general effects or complications occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving levodopa and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients: fall (3%), skin laceration (2%), skin abrasion (2%), and chest discomfort (2%). General effects reported during treatment with oral levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa include chest pain (unspecified), fatigue, abdominal pain, abdominal distress, malaise, faintness, hot flashes, sense of stimulation, edema, and asthenia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      skin laceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    back pain, muscle cramps
    General Information
    Adverse musculoskeletal effects that have been reported during treatment with oral levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa include back pain, shoulder pain, muscle cramps, muscle twitching, and leg pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blepharospasm, blurred vision, diplopia, mydriasis, ocular hypertension
    General Information
    Adverse ophthalmic effects that have been reported during treatment with levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa include diplopia, blurred vision, mydriasis, and blepharospasm (which may indicate toxicity). Levodopa may cause increased intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension) in patients with closed-angle glaucoma.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      mydriasis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      blepharospasm
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms
    General Information
    A symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome (i.e., neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms) can develop following abrupt discontinuation or dose reduction of levodopa, especially in patients receiving antipsychotic agents concomitantly. Patients should be observed closely for manifestations of this symptom complex, which includes fever or hyperthermia. Neurological findings, including muscle rigidity, involuntary movements, altered consciousness, mental status changes; other disturbances, such as autonomic dysfunction, tachycardia, tachypnea, sweating, hyper- or hypotension; laboratory findings, such as creatine phosphokinase elevation, leukocytosis, myoglobinuria, and increased serum myoglobin have been reported. Early diagnosis is important for the appropriate management of this condition.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, glycosuria, hyperbilirubinemia, hyperglycemia, proteinuria
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes (AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase, lactic dehydrogenase), elevated bilirubin levels (hyperbilirubinemia), abnormalities in blood urea nitrogen (BUN), positive direct antibody test (Coombs test), elevated serum glucose (hyperglycemia), decreased serum potassium, increased serum creatinine, increased serum uric acid, proteinuria, and glycosuria have been reported during treatment with oral levodopa alone or in combination with carbidopa. During a controlled trial of inhalational levodopa in adults with Parkinson disease using an average of 2 doses per day, the following abnormal laboratory results occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving levodopa and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients: increased serum bilirubin (2%) and decreased red blood cell count (2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      glycosuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Rarely, falsely diagnosed pheochromocytoma has been reported in patients receiving levodopa due to laboratory test interference. Caution is recommended when interpreting the plasma and urine levels of catecholamines and catecholamine metabolites in patients on levodopa. Levodopa may also cause a false positive reaction for urinary ketone bodies when a test tape is used. False negative tests may result with the use of glucose oxidase methods for testing glucosuria.
    Headline
    skin cancer
    General Information
    Skin cancer (melanoma) has been reported postmarketing in patients receiving oral levodopa therapy, alone or in combination with carbidopa. Epidemiological studies have shown that patients with Parkinson disease have a higher risk (2- to approximately 6-fold higher) of developing melanoma skin cancer than the general population. Whether the increased risk observed was due to Parkinson disease or other factors, such as drugs used to treat Parkinson disease, is unclear. Patients and providers are advised to monitor for melanomas frequently and on a regular basis when using oral levodopa for any indication. Ideally, periodic skin examinations should be performed by appropriately qualified individuals (e.g., dermatologists).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      skin cancer
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Levodopa (L-dopa) is an aromatic amine that is metabolized to dopamine. Levodopa is available in an oral inhalation formulation (Inbrija) that is used "as needed" up to 5 times daily for 'off' episodes in Parkinson's patients receiving levodopa/carbidopa. Oral levodopa formulas are combined with carbidopa (Sinemet, Sinemet CR, Duopa) for treating motor symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease or parkinsonism. Levodopa revolutionized the treatment of Parkinson's disease when it was introduced in the 1960s and it is still considered a first-line treatment option when combined with carbidopa. Levodopa can significantly decrease motor symptoms, thereby increasing quality of life in patients with Parkinson's disease. Due to low bioavailability of levodopa into the CNS, combined use with carbidopa is considered the standard of care due to the ability of carbidopa to increase the amount of levodopa available for transport into the CNS. Because of various central nervous system effects that may occur during levodopa administration, patients receiving levodopa should be monitored for depression, suicidality, hallucinations, psychosis, and other cognitive or behavioral changes.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Levodopa is the amino acid precursor of dopamine. Unlike dopamine, levodopa crosses the blood-brain barrier, although the method of administration is important for the effectiveness of the drug in disorders of central degeneration of dopaminergic neurons such as Parkinson's disease.
 
When levodopa is administered orally, it is rapidly decarboxylated to dopamine in the periphery leaving only a small portion of levodopa for diffusion into the central nervous system (CNS). Carbidopa is required in combination with levodopa for optimal oral therapy since carbidopa inhibits the peripheral breakdown of levodopa, making more levodopa available for delivery into the CNS.
 
Levodopa oral inhalation diffuses directly into the CNS where it is converted to dopamine. Disease progression is associated with 'off' episodes, which occur between routine doses of carbidopa; levodopa when the medication benefits wear off and motor symptoms re-emerge. Intermittent use of levodopa treats these episodes, which are thought to result from loss of ability to store dopamine, and possibly from changes in peripheral levodopa pharmacokinetics or postsynaptic dopamine functioning.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, amino acid transport mechanisms carry levodopa across the membrane of the gastrointestinal tract. Levodopa competes with certain amino acids for transport across the gut wall; therefore, the absorption of levodopa may be impaired in those on a high protein diet. Any food (i.e., high fat or high protein) or drug that delays gastric emptying may decrease the absorption of levodopa. Iron salts or multivitamins containing iron salts can form chelates with levodopa and reduce the bioavailability of levodopa.
    Name
    Inhalation Route
    Description
    Following oral inhalation of one 84-mg dose of levodopa, the median time to maximum plasma concentrations of levodopa is about 0.5 hours (range: 0.17 to 2 hours). In fasting healthy volunteers, the bioavailability of levodopa is about 70% relative to immediate-release oral levodopa tablets. The dose-normalized maximum concentration from orally inhaled levodopa is about 50% of that following immediate-release oral tablets.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Levodopa has not been evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Levodopa has not been evaluated in patients with renal impairment.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Safety and efficacy of levodopa have not been established in pediatric patients; pharmacokinetic data in this population are not available.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Clinical studies specifically designed to evaluate the kinetics of orally inhaled levodopa in the elderly were not conducted. There are no specific dosing recommendations for oral levodopa based upon age since the drug is titrated to tolerability and clinical effect.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    After administration of a single dose (84 mg) of orally inhaled levodopa, the body-weight adjusted maximum concentration and AUC were similar between men and women; therefore, no dosage adjustment of orally inhaled levodopa is required based upon gender. In a separate study of an oral carbidopa; levodopa formulation, females had higher levodopa peak concentrations (approximately 23% to 33%) and systemic exposure (approximately 33% to 37%) than males while the median time to peak concentration and terminal half-life were comparable between males and females.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Smoking
After administration of a single dose (84 mg) of orally inhaled levodopa in the presence of carbidopa, levodopa exposure in smokers and non-smokers was similar; therefore, no dosage adjustment of orally inhaled levodopa is required based upon smoking status.
  Text
  Levodopa is administered orally and by oral inhalation. When levodopa is administered orally, it is rapidly decarboxylated in extracerebral tissues to dopamine, leaving only a small portion of a dose to be transported unchanged into the central nervous system. The plasma half-life of oral levodopa is about 50 minutes. When levodopa is administered with carbidopa, the half-life is increased to 1.5 hours. The half-life of levodopa following a single orally inhaled dose (84 mg) is 2.3 hours. The two major metabolic pathways are decarboxylation by dopa decarboxylase and O-methylation by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). Levodopa is excreted in the urine primarily as metabolites, including dopamine and homovanillic acid (HVA). Carbidopa reduces the amount of levodopa required for a given response by about 75% and decreases plasma and urinary dopamine and HVA.
 
Affected Cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Inhalation Administration
    Description
    Oral inhalation powder (capsules for oral inhalation; i.e., Inbrija)
Refer to the "Instructions for Use" section of the product labeling for detailed visual aids that accompany the written instructions.
Each carton contains capsules in foil blister strips and 1 inhaler.
For oral inhalation using the manufacturer supplied inhaler device ONLY. Do NOT swallow the capsules.
Always use the new inhaler in the new carton. Do not save or use inhalers from previous cartons.
Healthcare providers should instruct the patient on proper use of the inhaler device.
Ensure hands are clean and dry and find a clean, dry surface to gather supplies and prepare dose. Check the expiration date and discard any expired product.
Inhaler preparation:
Remove the blue cap by pulling it straight off of the inhaler and place the cap to the side for later use.
Twist and pull off the mouthpiece to separate it from the handle.
Capsule preparation:
Just prior to use, remove 1 capsule from packaging by carefully peeling back the foil.
Do NOT try to push the capsule through the back of the foil package. Only remove 1 capsule at a time.
Discard any capsule that looks crushed, damaged, or wet.
Preparation of capsule with inhaler:
Hold the inhaler upright using the handle.
Drop 1 capsule into the opening of the capsule chamber. Do not load 2 capsules at the same time.
Line up the white arrows on the handle and mouthpiece.
Firmly push the mouthpiece and handle together until you hear a "click". This punctures the capsule.
Release the mouthpiece, which will spring back and stay attached. The inhaler is now ready to use.
Do not push the handle and mouthpiece together more than 1 time since the capsule may become damaged and the full dose may not be received.
If the capsule becomes damaged, discard it in the trash and begin with a new capsule.
Ensure the mouthpiece is securely attached and will not fall off before taking the dose.
Dose administration (patient instructions):
Stand or sit with your head and chest upright.
Hold the inhaler level and away from the mouth.
Breathe out completely. Do NOT breathe into the mouthpiece.
While keeping the inhaler level, close your lips firmly around the mouthpiece.
Take in a deep, comfortable breath until your lungs feel full. This normally takes several seconds.
As you breathe in, you will hear and feel the capsule "whirl" (spin). The whirl means the inhaler is working.
If you cough or stop inhaling the dose, start again using the same capsule.
After inhaling the dose, remove inhaler from your mouth and hold your breath for 5 seconds, then breathe out.
Twist and pull off the mouthpiece and take out the used capsule.
Repeat steps for second capsule, to complete the full dose.
Capsule disposition: After each use, discard the used capsules in the trash. Do NOT store capsules in the inhaler for future use.
Inhaler disposition: Ensure there are no capsules in the inhaler before storing the inhaler for the next use. Attach the mouthpiece to the handle by pushing until you hear a "click". Attach the blue cap over the mouthpiece. Store for next use. Discard the inhaler after all of the capsules in the package have been used.
Cleaning the inhaler: It is normal for some powder to remain on the inhaler. Cleaning the inhaler is not necessary; however, a dry cotton swab or a dry tissue may be used to wipe the inside or outside of the mouthpiece.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Generally, 8 grams/day PO; 420 mg/day via oral inhalation.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Generally, 8 grams/day PO; 420 mg/day via oral inhalation.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
