=== Tolcapone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2118)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Tolcapone is an oral peripherally and centrally-acting catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor used as an adjunct to levodopa/carbidopa therapy in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 600 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, colitis, gi bleeding, hypersalivation, oral ulceration, peptic ulcer, elevated creatine kinase, neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms, rhabdomyolysis, withdrawal, dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, hyperkinesis, dysuria, hematuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), nocturia, oliguria, polyuria, urinary incontinence, urinary retention, urine discoloration, vaginitis, cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity, jaundice, arthropathy

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Tolcapone is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to tolcapone or its ingredients. Tolcapone is contraindicated in patients with a history of non-traumatic rhabdomyolysis or hyperpyrexia and confusion possibly related to the drug.

Brand Names
  - Tasmar

Dosage Forms
  - Tasmar 100mg Tablet
  - Tolcapone 100mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO 3 times daily, initially. In clinical trials, the first dose of the day of tolcapone was always taken together with the first dose of the day of carbidopa/levodopa, and the subsequent doses of tolcapone were given approximately 6 and 12 hours later. May increase the dose to 200 mg PO 3 times daily only if the anticipated incremental clinical benefit is likely to exceed the potential increased risk of hepatotoxicity. Max: 600 mg/day. To optimize response, reductions in the daily levodopa dosage or extending the interval between levodopa dose may be necessary. If the expected incremental benefit is not achieved with 200 mg/dose after a total of 3 weeks of treatment, discontinue tolcapone.
    Heading
    For the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson disease as an adjunct to carbidopa/levodopa

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Tolcapone is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to tolcapone or its ingredients. 
 
Tolcapone is contraindicated in patients with a history of non-traumatic rhabdomyolysis or hyperpyrexia and confusion possibly related to the drug. Cases of severe rhabdomyolysis have occurred, including one case of multiorgan system failure and eventual death. Rare cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome have been observed in clinical trials and during post-marketing use, and have been associated with abrupt withdrawal or dose reduction of tolcapone. Symptoms have included hyperpyrexia, confusion, muscle rigidity, altered consciousness, and elevated CPK. Causality to tolcapone has not been established.
 
Tolcapone is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease or in patients previously withdrawn from tolcapone due to evidence of tolcapone-induced hepatocellular injury (see Adverse Reactions). Tolcapone should not be initiated in patients with 2 SGPT/ALT or SGOT/AST values greater than the upper limit of normal. Due to the risk of potentially fatal, acute fulminant liver failure, tolcapone should ordinarily only be used in patients with Parkinson's disease on L-dopa/carbidopa who are experiencing symptom fluctuations and are not responding satisfactorily to or are not appropriate candidates for other adjunctive therapies. Patients with moderate non-cirrhotic liver disease have reduced clearance of unbound tolcapone by almost 50%, increasing the average concentration of unbound drug by about twofold. Further, some patients (1—3%) treated with tolcapone develop elevated hepatic enzymes. Cases of severe hepatocellular injury, including cases of fatal hepatic failure resulting in death, have been reported in post-marketing use of tolcapone. It is recommended that liver enzymes (i.e., ALT/AST) be monitored at baseline and then periodically (i.e., every 2—4 weeks) for the first 6 months while on tolcapone therapy. After the first 6 months, periodic liver enzyme monitoring is recommended at intervals deemed clinically relevant. Increases in dose may require additional liver enzyme monitoring (see Dosage). Patients who fail to show substantial clinical benefit within the first 3 weeks of tolcapone therapy should be withdrawn from the medication due to the risk of severe hepatic toxicity with continued treatment. Tolcapone should be discontinued for hepatic enzyme elevations greater than two times the upper limit of normal or at the appearance of signs or symptoms of the onset of hepatic dysfunction or failure. Patients receiving tolcapone should be advised to report symptoms of fatigue, abdominal pain (upper right quadrant tenderness), clay-colored stools, persistent nausea, loss of appetite, dark urine, pruritus or jaundice to their health care professional for evaluation.
 
Tolcapone should be used cautiously in patients with hypotension or syncope. Dopaminergic therapy in Parkinson's disease patients has been associated with orthostatic hypotension. Tolcapone enhances levodopa bioavailability and, therefore, may increase the occurrence of orthostatic hypotension or syncope.
 
Tolcapone should be used cautiously in patients with preexisting diarrhea. Diarrhea was the most common adverse reaction leading to discontinuation of tolcapone therapy. Severe diarrhea developed in 3—4% of patients receiving tolcapone. Tolcapone-induced diarrhea may sometimes be associated with anorexia, therefore, use cautiously in patients with anorexia nervosa.
 
Tolcapone may potentiate the dopaminergic adverse effects of levodopa and may cause and/or exacerbate preexisting dyskinesia.
 
Tolcapone should be used cautiously in patients with severe renal impairment or renal disease. Tolcapone use has not been examined in patients with severe renal impairment or disease. No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment.
 
Tolcapone should be used with caution in patients with preexisting hematuria. Hematuria has been associated with tolcapone therapy in placebo-controlled clinical trials.
 
Tolcapone is classified as FDA pregnancy category C. There is no experience from clinical studies regarding the use of tolcapone in pregnant women. Tolcapone should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.
 
It is unknown if tolcapone is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when tolcapone is administered to breast-feeding women.
 
Safe and effective use of tolcapone has not been established in children. There is no identified potential use of tolcapone in pediatric patients.
 
Patients should be warned against driving or operating machinery until they know how tolcapone affects them. Because of the possibility of additive sedative and other CNS effects, caution should be used when patients are taking other CNS depressants in combination with tolcapone.
 
Epidemiological studies have shown that patients with Parkinson's disease have a 2- to 6-fold higher risk of developing melanoma than the general population. It is unclear if this increased risk is disease-related or associated with other factors such as the medications used to treat Parkinson's disease. Therefore, it is recommended that a qualified practitioner (e.g., dermatologist) monitor for melanomas on a regular basis during tolcapone use for any indication. In addition, patients should be instructed to regularly monitor for skin changes that may indicate the presence of melanoma and to promptly report these changes to their provider.
 
Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases, the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving tolcapone. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving tolcapone. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    dyskinesia, dystonia, history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use, nontraumatic rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    Tolcapone is contraindicated in patients with a history of nontraumatic rhabdomyolysis. It is also contraindicated in patients with a history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use, including hyperpyrexia and confusion associated with medication use, such as tolcapone and other dopaminergic therapies. Cases of severe rhabdomyolysis have occurred, including one case of multiorgan system failure and eventual death. The boxed warning for tolcapone recommends that the drug be used with caution in patients with severe dyskinesia or dystonia, as severe prolonged motor activity including dyskinesia may account for some cases of rhabdomyolysis.
    Headline
    hepatic disease, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Tolcapone is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease or in patients previously withdrawn from tolcapone due to evidence of tolcapone-induced hepatotoxicity (hepatocellular injury). Tolcapone should not be initiated in patients with two SGPT/ALT or SGOT/AST values greater than the upper limit of normal (ULN). Due to the risk of hepatotoxicity and potentially fatal, acute fulminant hepatic failure, tolcapone should ordinarily only be used in patients with Parkinson disease on L-dopa/carbidopa who are experiencing symptom fluctuations and are not responding to or are not appropriate candidates for other adjunctive therapies. Patients who fail to show substantial clinical benefit within the first 3 weeks of tolcapone therapy should be withdrawn from the medication due to the risk of severe hepatic toxicity with continued treatment. Liver function tests (LFTs) should be determined at baseline and monitored periodically (i.e. every 2 to 4 weeks) for the first 6 months of therapy or following dose increases and as clinically relevant thereafter. Although more frequent monitoring increases the chances of early detection, the precise schedule for monitoring is a matter of clinical judgment. Tolcapone should be discontinued if hepatic enzymes exceed 2 times the ULN or if any clinical signs or symptoms suggest hepatic dysfunction, such as clay-colored stools, jaundice, persistent nausea, fatigue, lethargy, loss of appetite, dark urine, pruritus, and/or right upper quadrant tenderness. Do not re-introduce tolcapone following recovery.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, sleep disorder
    General Information
    Tolcapone has the potential to cause drowsiness or somnolence. Prior to initiating treatment, advise patients of the potential for drowsiness while taking tolcapone and inquire about factors that may increase the risk for somnolence, such as a sleep disorder (e.g., narcolepsy, sleep apnea), alcohol use, or coadministration with other CNS depressants. Some Parkinson disease patients taking dopaminergic agents, including tolcapone, have reported sudden sleep onset while engaged in activities of daily living, such as driving. In some cases, auto accidents or other harmful events have occurred. Some patients do not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, and believe they are alert immediately prior to the event; therefore, patients should use caution when driving or operating machinery or performing other activities requiring coordination and concentration. Reassessment for somnolence is necessary throughout therapy. Patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities. Consider discontinuing tolcapone in patients that develop significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.). If a decision is made to continue the drug under these circumstances, patients should be advised to avoid driving or other potentially dangerous activities.
    Headline
    psychotic disorder
    General Information
    In general, patients with a major psychotic disorder should not be treated with tolcapone because of the risk of exacerbating psychosis. In addition, certain medications used to treat psychosis may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson disease and may decrease the effectiveness of tolcapone. Postmarketing reports indicate that patients may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes, which may be severe, including psychotic-like behavior during tolcapone treatment or after starting or increasing the dose. Hallucinations have also been reported in patients receiving tolcapone.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. However, patients with severe renal impairment or renal failure should be treated with caution. The safety of tolcapone has not been examined in people with CrCl less than 25 mL/minute.
    Headline
    planned procedure
    General Information
    Patients should inform their surgeon and anesthesiologist of the use of tolcapone prior to any planned procedure, as COMT inhibitors may interact with some medications used in surgical procedures. If a patient requires general anesthesia for surgery, tolcapone may be continued as long as the patient is permitted to take fluids and medication by mouth. Cases of neuroleptic malignant syndrome have been reported post-surgery so close monitoring is warranted; re-institute tolcapone therapy as soon as possible after the procedure.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    In clinical trials of tolcapone, there were generally no consistent age-related trends in safety parameters. However, geriatric adults more than 75 years of age may be more likely to develop hallucinations and less likely to develop dystonia than those patients less than 75 years of age.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of tolcapone during human pregnancy. Tolcapone was not teratogenic at doses 5.7 and 15 times or more the recommended daily clinical dose, based on body surface area, in rats and rabbits, respectively. There was an increased rate of abortion in rabbits given 3.7 times the daily clinical dose. When given to femal rates during the last part of gestation and throughout lactation, decreased litter size, impaired growth, and impaired learning performance was observed in female pups. Use tolcapone during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use tolcapone with caution in breast-feeding patients. There is no data on the presence of tolcapone in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Tolcapone is present in rat milk. An alternative drug may be preferred.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of tolcapone during human pregnancy. Tolcapone was not teratogenic at doses 5.7 and 15 times or more the recommended daily clinical dose, based on body surface area, in rats and rabbits, respectively. There was an increased rate of abortion in rabbits given 3.7 times the daily clinical dose. When given to femal rates during the last part of gestation and throughout lactation, decreased litter size, impaired growth, and impaired learning performance was observed in female pups. Use tolcapone during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use tolcapone with caution in breast-feeding patients. There is no data on the presence of tolcapone in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Tolcapone is present in rat milk. An alternative drug may be preferred.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
ALFentanil: (Major) COMT inhibitors may cause additive sedation or hypotension with alfentanil. Monitor patients receiving alfentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Amitriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Amobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Amoxapine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as heterocyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Atropine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Azelastine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine is combined with other CNS depressants including COMT inhibitors. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine is combined with other CNS depressants including COMT inhibitors. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Baclofen: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Barbiturates: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors, such as tolcapone, may cause additive sedation and somnolence. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Benzodiazepines: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Butorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sodium oxybate, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and tolcapone. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and tolcapone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as tolcapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Clemastine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when clobazam is combined with tolcapone, a COMT inhibitor. Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects. COMT inhibitors may cause drowsiness and have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
clonazePAM: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
cloNIDine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including clonidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation and hypotension. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Clorazepate: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Desipramine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as tolcapone, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation. Advise patients about worsened somnolence and not to drive or perform other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how deutetrabenazine affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including dexmedetomidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery from dexmedetomidine administration.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diazePAM: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), such as dobutamine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), such as dopamine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Doxepin: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
droNABinol: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including dronabinol, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
droPERidol: (Major) Use droperidol with caution in patients taking COMT inhibitors due to the possibility of additive sedation. Droperidol produces marked tranquilization and sedation; reduced dosages may be needed in debilitated patients, particularly when combined with other CNS depressants.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Esketamine: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as tolcapone, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Eszopiclone: (Major) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone or concomitantly administered drugs with sedative properties (e.g., COMT inhibitors) should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment from eszopiclone may be increased during coadministration, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and tolcapone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as tolcapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including flibanserin, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Flurazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and tolcapone. Concomitant use of gabapentin with tolcapone may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as tolcapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
General anesthetics: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including guanfacine, due to the possibility of additive sedation or hypotension. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Haloperidol: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, haloperidol and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to haloperidol. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Heterocyclic antidepressants: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as heterocyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Imipramine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of isocarboxazid, which is a non-selective MAO inhibitor, and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. The combination of a COMT inhibitor and isocarboxazid may result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism, which may lead to hypertensive crisis or other adverse effects.
Isoflurane: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as isoproterenol, should be administered cautiously in patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Ketamine: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and tolcapone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as tolcapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and tolcapone. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and tolcapone may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Linezolid: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of COMT inhibitors in combination with linezoid, which has non-selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor activity. Typically, at least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of a non-selective MAOI and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Consider an alternative to linezolid if possible. Monoamine oxidase and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the two major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. It is theoretically possible that the coadministration of a COMT inhibitor with linezolid would result in inhibition of normal catecholamine metabolism and possible toxicity.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and tolcapone. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants.
LORazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Loxapine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, loxapine and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider if an atypical antipsychotic is a potential alternative to loxapine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Meclizine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Melatonin: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including melatonin, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during coadministration of COMT inhibitors and meprobamate. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Methohexital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as methyldopa, should be administered cautiously in patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Additive sedation and hypotension can occur. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Methylphenidate: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Coadministration of COMT inhibitors and metoclopramide should be avoided if possible. Metoclopramide may interfere with the effectiveness of COMT inhibitors. Metoclopramide has dopamine antagonist properties while COMT inhibitors increase the availability of catecholamine concentrations (e.g., dopamine) in the central nervous system.
Midazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Mirtazapine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as mirtazapine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Molindone: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Nefazodone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as nefazodone, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as norepinephrine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Nortriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with tolcapone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with tolcapone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Opiate Agonists-Antagonists: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oxazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
PENTobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as tolcapone.
Perphenazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of phenelzine, which is a non-selective MAO inhibitor, and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. The combination of a COMT inhibitor and phenelzine may result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism, which may lead to hypertensive crisis or other adverse effects.
PHENobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including scopolamine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Pimozide: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, pimozide and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic instead of pimozide if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Coadministration of COMT inhibitors and pramipexole may cause additive sedation. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use of pregabalin with COMT inhibitors may cause additive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Primidone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Procarbazine: (Major) Procarbazine has some non-selective MAO inhibiting activity. Typically, at least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of the non-selective MAOI and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Patients should ordinarily not receive COMT-inhibitors in combination with agents with non-selective MAO inhibiting activity. MAO and COMT are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. It is theoretically possible that the combination of COMT-inhibitors and a non-selective MAOI would result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Propofol: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Protriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Quazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), such as racepinephrine inhalations , should be administered cautiously in patients receiving COMT inhibitors like entacapone, tolcapone, or combinations containing these drugs such as carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. If a patient is taking a COMT-inhibitor, then they should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rate, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. A single 400 mg dose of entacapone given with intravenous epinephrine has produced changes in heart rate and blood pressure. Ventricular tachycardia was noted in one healthy volunteer during an interaction study with epinephrine infusion and oral entacapone administration.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including ramelteon, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Remifentanil: (Major) COMT inhibitors may cause additive sedation or hypotension with remifentanil. Monitor patients receiving remifentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Remimazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including scopolamine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Secobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sodium oxybate, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as tolcapone. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and tolcapone. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) COMT inhibitors may cause additive sedation or hypotension with sufentanil. Monitor patients receiving sufentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tasimelteon, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Temazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as tolcapone, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation. Advise patients about worsened somnolence and not to drive or perform other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how tetrabenazine affects them.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of thalidomide and COMT inhibitors may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided if possible. If concurrent treatment is needed, prescribers should monitor patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Thioridazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Thiothixene: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, thiothixene and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to thiothixene. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as tizanidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of tranylcypromine, which is a non-selective MAO inhibitor, and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. The combination of a COMT inhibitor and tranylcypromine may result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism, which may lead to hypertensive crisis or other adverse effects.
traZODone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as trazodone, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Triazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Trimipramine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including valerian, due to the possibility of additive sedation.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including valproic acid, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Warfarin: (Minor) Although evidence for an interaction is lacking, the affinity of tolcapone for CYP2C9 may result in enhanced anticoagulation with warfarin, a substrate for CYP2C9. Clinical studies with sensitive CYP2C9 substrates did not indicate a major effect of tolcapone on CYP2C9-induced drug metabolism. However, since data are limited regarding warfarin, the manufacturer recommends that the INR be monitored with tolcapone initation and at dose changes to ensure proper patient INR goals.
Zaleplon: (Major) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during concurrent use of COMT inhibitors and zaleplon. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for additive side effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Zolpidem: (Major) COMT inhibitors such as entacapone and tolcapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including zolpidem, due to the possibility of additive sedation. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for additive side effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. For Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets, reduce the dose to 1.75 mg/night.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The most common (occurring in > 5% of patients) adverse reactions to tolcapone appearing in the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (n=892) and not seen at an equivalent frequency among the placebo-treated patients were abdominal pain, anorexia, confusion, constipation, diaphoresis, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, dyspepsia, dystonia, falling, fatigue, headache, muscle cramps, nausea/vomiting, upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, urine discoloration, and xerostomia. Some ADRs are related to potentiation of levodopa's effects. Also note that some of these adverse effects may be due to potentially fatal drug-induced liver impairment or liver failure (i.e., dark urine, abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, fatigue). Since the metabolic capacity of COMT in peripheral tissues is high and only minor degrees of COMT inhibition can be achieved, adverse reactions due to the pharmacologic actions of tolcapone are not expected to be severe.
 
Diarrhea was the most frequent cause of discontinuation of tolcapone therapy. In clinical trials, diarrhea developed in approximately 8%, 16%, and 18% of patients treated with placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone tid, respectively. Approximately 3—4% of patients developed severe diarrhea. Discontinuing tolcapone because of diarrhea was related to the severity of the symptom. Diarrhea generally resolved after discontinuation of tolcapone, however, hospitalization was required in 0.3%, 0.7%, and 1.7% of patients in the placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone tid groups, respectively.
 
Hallucinations developed in approximately 5%, 8%, and 10% of patients treated with placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone three times per day, respectively, in clinical trials. Hallucinations led to discontinuation of tolcapone therapy and premature withdrawal from clinical trials in 0.3%, 1.4%, and 1% of patients receiving placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg doses of tolcapone, respectively. Hallucinations led to hospitalization in 0%, 1.7%, and 0% of patients in the placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone groups, respectively. In general, hallucination occurred shortly after the initiation of therapy (typically within the first 2 weeks). Clinical trial data suggest that hallucinations associated with tolcapone therapy may be responsive to levodopa dose reduction. Hallucinations were commonly accompanied by confusion and to a lesser extent sleep disorder (insomnia) and excessive dreaming.
 
Tolcapone may potentiate the dopaminergic adverse effects of levodopa and may cause and/or exacerbate preexisting dyskinesia. Although decreasing the dose of levodopa may ameliorate this adverse effect, many patients in controlled trials continued to experience frequent dyskinesias despite a reduction in their levodopa dose. The rates of discontinuation of tolcapone due to dyskinesia were 0%, 0.3%, and 1% for placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone three times per day, respectively.
 
The rates of hematuria in placebo-controlled trials were approximately 2%, 4% and 5% in placebo, 100 mg and 200 mg tolcapone dosages, respectively. The etiology of the increase with tolcapone has not always been explained (e.g., by urinary tract infection or warfarin therapy). In placebo-controlled trials in the United States (n=593), rates of microscopically confirmed hematuria were approximately 3%, 2%, and 2% in placebo, 100 mg and 200 mg tolcapone tid, respectively.
 
A boxed warning exists in the package labeling detailing a risk of fulminant hepatic failure with the use of tolcapone. In phase 3 controlled trials, elevated hepatic enzymes to more than 3 times the upper limit of normal occurred in approximately 1% of patients receiving tolcapone 100 mg three times per day and 3% of patients receiving tolcapone 200 mg three times per day. Females were more likely than males to have an increase in hepatic enzymes (approximately 5% vs. 2%). Diarrhea occurred in approximately 1/3 of patients with elevated hepatic enzymes. Increases to more than 8 times the upper limit of normal occurred in 0.3% and 1.7% of patients treated with 100 mg and 200 mg doses, respectively. When treatment was discontinued, enzymes generally declined within 2—3 weeks but in some cases took as long as 1—2 months to return to normal. Hepatic failure has also been reported in post-marketing surveillance of tolcapone. Three cases of fatal hepatic injury have been reported in approximately 60,000 patients treated with tolcapone. The incidence is 10 to 100-fold higher than the normal incidence of hepatic failure in the general population. Hepatic enzymes should be monitored every 2 weeks during tolcapone therapy. It is recommended that tolcapone should be discontinued if hepatic enzymes are elevated > 2 times above the upper limit of normal or if any clinical signs or symptoms suggestive of hepatic injury such as jaundice or cholestasis are present. Other symptoms that may be suggestive of hepatic impairment include right upper quadrant pain, pruritus, clay-colored stools, fatigue, persistent nausea, loss of appetite, or dark urine.
 
Emergent fever and confusion have been reported with sudden withdrawal of tolcapone therapy. Four cases of a symptom complex resembling the neuroleptic malignant syndrome (characterized by elevated temperature, muscular rigidity, and altered consciousness), similar to that reported in association with the rapid dose reduction or withdrawal of other dopaminergic drugs, have been reported in association with the abrupt withdrawal or lowering of the dose of tolcapone in clinical trials. In 3 of the cases, CPK was elevated. One death occurred and the other 3 patients recovered over periods of approximately 2, 4, and 6 weeks. Similar events have been reported on rare occasions in post-marketing use. It is difficult to delineate whether tolcapone is causally related to these cases, or whether concomitant medication therapies also played a role. The presence of prolonged motor activity and dyskinesia as symptoms of this complex may account for the elevations in CPK and rhabdomyolysis that have occurred in some patients.
 
Dopaminergic therapy in Parkinson's disease patients has been associated with orthostatic hypotension. Tolcapone enhances levodopa bioavailability and, therefore, may increase the occurrence of orthostatic hypotension. In tolcapone clinical trials, orthostatic hypotension occurred at least once in 8%, 14%, and 13% of the patients treated with placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone three times per day, respectively. A total of 2%, 5%, and 4% of the patients treated with placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone three times per day, respectively, reported orthostatic symptoms at some time during their treatment and also had at least one episode of orthostatic hypotension documented (however, the episode of orthostatic symptoms itself was invariably not accompanied by vital sign measurements). Patients with orthostasis at baseline were more likely than patients without symptoms to have orthostatic hypotension during the study, regardless of treatment group. Baseline treatment with dopamine agonists or selegiline did not appear to increase the likelihood of experiencing orthostatic hypotension when treated with tolcapone. Approximately 0.7% of tolcapone-treated patients eventually withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions presumably related to hypotension. In addition, at least one episode of syncope was reported in approximately 5%, 4%, and 3% of tolcapone 200 mg, 100 mg, and placebo patients, respectively, during controlled phase III trials. Reports were generally more frequent in patients in all three treatment groups who had an episode of documented hypotension (although the episodes of syncope, obtained by history, were themselves not documented with vital sign measurement) compared to patients who did not have any episodes of documented hypotension.
 
Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases, the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving tolcapone. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving tolcapone. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, esophagitis, flatulence, GI bleeding, hypersalivation, nausea, oral ulceration, peptic ulcer, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    During clinical trials assessing tolcapone 100—200 mg PO tid in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving tolcapone than placebo: nausea (30—35% vs 18%), anorexia (19—23% vs 13%), diarrhea (16—18% vs 8%), vomiting (8—10% vs 4%), constipation (6—8% vs 5%), xerostomia (5—6% vs 2%), abdominal pain (5—6% vs 3%), dyspepsia (3—4% vs 2%), and flatulence (2—4% vs 2%). Diarrhea was the most frequent cause of discontinuation of tolcapone therapy. Approximately 3—4% of patients developed severe diarrhea. Discontinuing tolcapone because of diarrhea was related to the severity of the symptom. Diarrhea generally resolved after discontinuation of tolcapone, however, hospitalization was required in 0.3%, 0.7%, and 1.7% of patients in the placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone tid groups, respectively. Diarrhea typically presents 6 to 12 weeks after treatment initiation, but ranges from as early as 2 weeks to as late as many months. Diarrhea may be associated with anorexia. The etiology is unknown. All cases of persistent diarrhea should be thoroughly evaluated. Tooth disorder was reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation. Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) included dysphagia, GI bleeding, gastroenteritis, oral ulceration, hypersalivation, abnormal stools, esophagitis, cholelithiasis, colitis, tongue disorder, and rectal disorder. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included cholecystitis, peptic ulcer, GI carcinoma, and stomach atony.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholecystitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      esophagitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated creatine kinase, neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms, rhabdomyolysis, withdrawal
    General Information
    Emergent pyrexia and confusional state have been reported with sudden withdrawal of tolcapone therapy. Four cases of a complex of neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms (characterized by elevated temperature, muscular rigidity, and altered consciousness), similar to that reported in association with the rapid dose reduction or withdrawal of other dopaminergic drugs, have been reported in association with the abrupt withdrawal or lowering of the dose of tolcapone in clinical trials. In 3 of the cases, elevated creatine kinase was reported. One death occurred; the other 3 patients recovered over periods of approximately 2, 4, and 6 weeks. Similar events have been reported on rare occasions in post-marketing use. It is difficult to delineate whether tolcapone is causally related to these cases, or whether concomitant medication therapies also played a role. The presence of prolonged motor activity and dyskinesias as symptoms of this complex may account for elevated creatine kinase and rhabdomyolysis that have occurred in some patients. One case of rhabdomyolysis involving multiorgan system failure progressing to death has been reported. Causality between rhabdomyolysis and tolcapone has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    amnesia, choreoathetosis, depression, dizziness, dysarthria, emotional lability, encephalopathy, euphoria, headache, hostility, hyperesthesia, insomnia, irritability, libido decrease, libido increase, mania, meningitis, migraine, myoclonia, neuropathic pain, paresthesias, stroke, tremor, vertigo
    General Information
    During clinical trials assessing tolcapone 100—200 mg PO tid in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, the following psychiatric or CNS-mediated effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving tolcapone than placebo: excessive dreaming (16—21% vs 17%) sleep disorder including insomnia (24—25% vs 18%), dizziness (6—13% vs 10%), headache (10—11% vs 7%), balance loss (2—3% vs 2%), paresthesias (1—3% vs 2%), irritability (1% vs 0%), hyperactivity (1% vs 0%), mental deficiency (1% vs 0%), panic reaction (<= 1% vs 0%), and euphoria (<= 1% vs 0%). Other CNS effects reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation included depression, hyperesthesia, tremor, dysarthria, vertigo, and emotional lability. Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) included migraine, neuralgia (neuropathic pain), amnesia, extrapyramidal syndrome (unspecified), hostility, libido increase, mania, nervousness, cerebral ischemia, stroke, libido decrease, neuropathy, apathy, choreoathetosis, myoclonia, and twitching. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included antisocial reaction, encephalopathy, hemiplegia, and meningitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      choreoathetosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      encephalopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hostility
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      meningitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myoclonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neuropathic pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, hyperkinesis
    General Information
    Tolcapone may potentiate the dopaminergic adverse effects of levodopa and may cause and/or exacerbate preexisting dyskinesia. Although decreasing the dose of levodopa may ameliorate this adverse effect, many patients in controlled trials continued to experience frequent dyskinesias despite a reduction in their levodopa dose. The product boxed warning recommends the use of caution in patients with severe dyskinesia or dystonia as severe prolonged motor activity may account for some cases of rhabdomyolysis observed during treatment with tolcapone. During clinical trials assessing tolcapone in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, the following extrapyramidal effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving tolcapone than placebo: dyskinesia (42% to 51%), hypokinesia (1% to 3%), hyperkinesis (2% to 3%), and dystonic reaction (19% to 22%). The rates of discontinuation of tolcapone due to dyskinesia were 0%, 0.3%, and 1% for placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone three times per day, respectively.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkinesis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dystonic reaction
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysuria, hematuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), nocturia, oliguria, polyuria, urinary incontinence, urinary retention, urine discoloration, vaginitis
    General Information
    During clinical trials assessing tolcapone 100—200 mg PO tid in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, the following adverse genitourinary (GU) effects occurred more frequently in patients treated with tolcapone than placebo: hematuria (4—5% vs 2%), urinary tract infection (5% vs 4%), urine discoloration (2—7% vs 1%), micturition disorder (1—2% vs 1%), and uterine tumor (<= 1% vs 0%). The etiology of the increase in hematuria with tolcapone has not always been explained (e.g., by urinary tract infection or warfarin therapy). In placebo-controlled trials in the United States (n=593), rates of microscopically confirmed hematuria were approximately 3%, 2%, and 2% in placebo, 100 mg and 200 mg tolcapone tid, respectively. Adverse GU effects reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation included urinary incontinence and impotence (erectile dysfunction). Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) included prostate disorder, dysuria, nocturia, polyuria, urinary retention, urinary tract disorder, kidney calculus, prostatic carcinoma, breast neoplasm, oliguria, uterine atony, uterine disorder and vaginitis. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included bladder calculus, ovarian carcinoma, and uterine hemorrhage. In rat studies, there was a high incidence of proximal tubule cell damage (degeneration, single cell necrosis, hyperplasia, karyocytomegaly, and atypical nuclei). The significance of this finding in humans is unknown and there is no established method to monitor patients for this potential effect.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urine discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      nocturia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oliguria
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vaginitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity, jaundice
    General Information
    A boxed warning exists in the tolcapone labeling detailing a risk of drug-induced hepatotoxicity, including fulminant hepatic failure. In controlled clinical trials, elevated hepatic enzymes to more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in approximately 1% of patients receiving tolcapone 100 mg three times per day and 3% of patients receiving tolcapone 200 mg three times per day. Females were more likely than males to have an increase in hepatic enzymes (approximately 5% females vs. 2% males). Diarrhea occurred in approximately 1/3 of patients with elevated hepatic enzymes. Increases to more than 8 times the ULN occurred in 0.3% and 1.7% of patients treated with 100 mg and 200 mg doses, respectively. When treatment was discontinued, enzymes generally declined within 2 to 3 weeks but in some cases took as long as 1 to 2 months to return to normal. Hepatic failure has also been reported in postmarketing surveillance of tolcapone. Three cases of fatal hepatic injury have been reported in approximately 40,000 patients treated with tolcapone. The incidence is 10- to 100-fold higher than the normal incidence of hepatic failure in the general population. Liver function tests (LFTs) should be determined at baseline and monitored periodically (i.e. every 2 to 4 weeks) for the first 6 months of therapy, and thereafter as is clinically relevant. Although more frequent monitoring increases the chances of early detection, the precise schedule for monitoring is a matter of clinical judgment. If the dose is increased to 200 mg three times per day, LFT monitoring should take place before increasing the dose and every 2 to 4 weeks for the following 6 months. After 6 months, periodic monitoring is recommended at intervals deemed clinically relevant. It is recommended that tolcapone should be discontinued if hepatic enzymes exceed 2 times the ULN or if any clinical signs or symptoms suggestive of hepatic injury such as jaundice or cholestasis are present. Other symptoms that may be suggestive of hepatic impairment include right upper quadrant pain, pruritus, clay-colored stools, tiredness, persistent nausea, loss of appetite, or dark urine. It is also recommended to not introduce tolcapone following recovery.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cholestasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    angina, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, chest pain (unspecified), heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, pericardial effusion, pulmonary embolism, sinus tachycardia, syncope, thrombosis
    General Information
    Dopaminergic therapy in Parkinson disease patients has been associated with orthostatic hypotension. Tolcapone enhances levodopa bioavailability and, therefore, may increase the occurrence of orthostatic hypotension. In tolcapone clinical trials, orthostatic hypotension occurred at least once in 8%, 14%, and 13% of the patients treated with placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone three times per day, respectively. A total of 2%, 5%, and 4% of the patients treated with placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone three times per day, respectively, reported orthostatic symptoms at some time during their treatment and also had at least one episode of orthostatic hypotension documented (however, the episode of orthostatic symptoms itself was invariably not accompanied by vital sign measurements). Patients with orthostasis at baseline were more likely than patients without symptoms to have orthostatic hypotension during the study, regardless of treatment group. Baseline treatment with dopamine agonists or selegiline did not appear to increase the likelihood of experiencing orthostatic hypotension when treated with tolcapone. Approximately 0.7% of tolcapone-treated patients eventually withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions presumably related to hypotension. In addition, at least one episode of syncope was reported in approximately 5%, 4%, and 3% of tolcapone 200 mg, 100 mg, and placebo patients, respectively, during controlled phase III trials. Reports were generally more frequent in patients in all three treatment groups who had an episode of documented hypotension (although the episodes of syncope, obtained by history, were themselves not documented with vital sign measurement) compared to patients who did not have any episodes of documented hypotension. Advise patients receiving tolcapone that they may develop postural (orthostatic) hypotension with or without symptoms such as dizziness, nausea, syncope, or sweating, particularly when starting treatment. Patients should be advised to rise slowly, especially after long periods of sitting or lying down. Other adverse cardiac effects that occurred more frequently in tolcapone-treated patients than placebo-treated patients during clinical trials included chest pain (unspecified) (1% to 3% vs.1%), hypotension (2% vs.1%), and chest discomfort (1% to 2% vs.1%). Palpitations were reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation. Infrequent effects (0.1% to 1%) included hypertension, vasodilation, angina, heart failure, atrial fibrillation, sinus tachycardia, aortic stenosis, arrhythmia, arteriospasm, bradycardia, cerebral hemorrhage, coronary artery disorder, cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction, myocardial ischemia, and pulmonary embolism. Rare effects (less than 0.1%) included arteriosclerosis, cardiovascular disorder, pericardial effusion, and thrombosis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      pericardial effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    impulse control symptoms
    General Information
    Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases, the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Because patients may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal, practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving tolcapone. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving tolcapone. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impulse control symptoms
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthropathy, hypertonia, muscle cramps, myalgia
    General Information
    During clinical trials assessing tolcapone 100—200 mg PO tid in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, the following musculoskeletal effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving tolcapone than placebo: muscle cramps (17—18% vs 17%), arthropathy (arthritis 1—2% vs 1%), neck pain (2% vs 1%), and hypertonia (<= 1 % vs 0%). Myalgia was reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation. Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) included tenosynovitis, arthrosis, and joint disorder.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthropathy
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    apnea, bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, fever, hiccups, hyperventilation, hypoxia, influenza, laryngitis, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, pleural effusion, pulmonary fibrosis, retroperitoneal fibrosis, rhinitis
    General Information
    During clinical trials assessing tolcapone for the treatment of Parkinson disease, the following infections or respiratory effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving tolcapone than placebo: upper respiratory tract infection (5% to 7% vs 3%), influenza (3% to 4% vs 2%), dyspnea (3% vs 2%), sinus/nasal congestion (1% to 2% vs 0%), and fever (1% or less vs 0%). Other effects reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation included bronchitis and pharyngitis. Infrequent effects (0.1% to 1%) included increased cough, rhinitis, asthma (bronchospasm), epistaxis, hyperventilation, laryngitis, hiccups, fungal infection, viral infection, and bacterial infection. Rare effects (less than 0.1%) included apnea, hypoxia, and lung edema. Three cases of pleural effusion, one with pulmonary fibrosis, occurred during clinical trials with tolcapone in patients who were also receiving concurrent dopamine agonists (pergolide or bromocriptine). Ergot-derived dopamine agonists, such as pergolide and bromocriptine, can cause retroperitoneal fibrosis, pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusion, pleural thickening, and valvulopathy with chronic administration. Potential signs and symptoms of fibrotic disorders include dyspnea, chronic cough, chest pain, renal insufficiency, ureteral/abdominal vascular obstruction, abdominal masses or tenderness, and cardiac failure. While these complications may resolve when the drug is discontinued, complete resolution does not always occur. Although these adverse events are believed to be related to the ergoline structure of these compounds, whether other, nonergot derived drugs (e.g., tolcapone) that increase dopaminergic activity can cause them is unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      apnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hiccups
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperventilation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      laryngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retroperitoneal fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    alopecia, atopic dermatitis, bleeding, erythema multiforme, furunculosis, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), seborrhea, skin discoloration, urticaria
    General Information
    During clinical trials assessing tolcapone 100—200 mg PO tid in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, the following dermatologic effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving tolcapone than placebo: hyperhidrosis (4—7% vs 2%), dermal bleeding (1% vs 0%), skin tumor (<= 1% vs 0%), and alopecia (<= 1% vs 0%). Rash (unspecified) was reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation. Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) included herpes zoster, pruritus, seborrhea, skin discoloration, atopic dermatitis, erythema multiforme, skin disorder, furunculosis, herpes simplex, and urticaria.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      atopic dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      furunculosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      seborrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      skin discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cataracts, diplopia, ocular hemorrhage, ocular inflammation, ocular pain, otalgia, parosmia, tinnitus
    General Information
    During clinical trials assessing tolcapone 100—200 mg in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, the following special senses effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving tolcapone than placebo: cataracts (<= 1% vs 0%) and ocular inflammation (<= 1% vs 0%). Tinnitus was reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation. Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) included diplopia, otalgia, ocular hemorrhage, ocular pain, lacrimation disorder, otitis media, and parosmia. Glaucoma was reported rarely (< 0.1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cataracts
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular inflammation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      otalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      parosmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    dehydration, diabetes mellitus, edema, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of tolcapone for Parkinson's disease, the following metabolic, nutritional, and endocrine effects were reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving tolcapone: edema, hypercholesterolemia, thirst, dehydration, and hyperglycemia or diabetes mellitus.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diabetes mellitus
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of tolcapone, anemia was reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving tolcapone. Hematologic effects reported rarely (< 0.1%) included leukemia and thrombocytopenia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chills, fatigue, flank pain, malaise
    General Information
    During clinical trials assessing tolcapone 100—200 mg PO tid in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, the following general effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving tolcapone than placebo: fatigue (3—7% vs 6%), falling (4—6% vs 4%), stiffness (2% vs 1%), burning (1—2% vs 0%), and malaise (<= 1% vs 0%). Other general effects not listed elsewhere that were reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation included flank pain. Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) included hernia, unspecified pain, unspecified allergic reaction, cellulitis, carcinoma, chills, neoplasm, abscess, and facial edema. Death was reported rarely (< 0.1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flank pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    drowsiness, sudden sleep onset
    General Information
    The risk of drowsiness was increased in patients taking tolcapone compared to placebo (14—18% vs. 13%) in clinical trials. There have been reports of patients receiving dopaminergic agents who have fallen asleep while performing activities of daily living, including driving. Excessive drowsiness has, in some cases, occurred as late as one year after the initiation of treatment. In some cases, sudden sleep onset has resulted in auto accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living. Symptoms of excessive drowsiness may not be preceded by warning signs. Patients should be cautioned about driving or operating machinery, working at heights, or performing other tasks that require alertness while receiving tolcapone. Those who have experienced somnolence or a sudden episode of sleep while taking the drug should avoid these activities. Reassessment for oversedation is suggested throughout therapy; patients should notify their prescriber if they fall asleep during normal activities. The use of concomitant CNS depressant medications or sleep disorders may increase the risk of falling asleep while taking this medication; patients should be assessed for these risk factors prior to initiation of the drug and be advised of the additive risks for somnolence. Tolcapone should generally be discontinued in patients who experience episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living. It is not known if a reduction in dosage will subsequently reduce or eliminate excessive somnolence or sudden episodes of sleep.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sudden sleep onset
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    agitation, confusion, delirium, paranoia, psychosis
    General Information
    There are post-marketing reports indicating that patients may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes, which may be severe, including psychosis during tolcapone treatment or after starting or increasing the dose. This abnormal thinking and behavior may present with one or more symptoms, including paranoia, delusions, hallucination, confusion, psychotic-like behavior, disorientation, aggressive behavior, agitation, and delirium. During clinical trials assessing tolcapone 100—200 mg PO three times daily in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, confusion (10—11% vs 9%) and agitation (1% vs 0%) were reported more frequently in patients receiving tolcapone than placebo. Paranoia, delusions, psychosis, and abnormal thinking were reported infrequently (0.1—1%). Delirium was reported rarely.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paranoia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hallucinations
    General Information
    The risk of hallucinations was increased in patients taking tolcapone compared to placebo (8% to 10% vs. 5%) in clinical trials. Hallucinations led to discontinuation of tolcapone therapy and premature withdrawal from clinical trials in 0.3%, 1.4%, and 1% of patients receiving placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg doses of tolcapone, respectively. Hallucinations led to hospitalization in 0%, 1.7%, and 0% of patients in the placebo, 100 mg, and 200 mg tolcapone groups, respectively. In general, hallucinations occurred shortly after the initiation of therapy (typically within the first 2 weeks). Clinical trial data suggest that hallucinations associated with tolcapone therapy may be responsive to levodopa dose reduction. Hallucinations were commonly accompanied by confusion and, to a lesser extent, sleep disorder (insomnia) and excessive dreaming. The incidence of hallucination may be increased in elderly patients greater than 75 years old.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    melanoma
    General Information
    Epidemiological studies have shown that patients with Parkinson disease have a 2- to 6-fold higher risk of developing melanoma than the general population. It is unclear if this increased risk is disease-related or associated with other factors such as the medications (e.g. tolcapone) used to treat Parkinson disease. Therefore, it is recommended that a qualified practitioner (e.g., dermatologist) monitor for melanomas on a regular basis during tolcapone use for any indication. In addition, patients should be instructed to regularly monitor for skin changes that may indicate the presence of melanoma and to promptly report these changes to their provider.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      melanoma
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Tolcapone is an oral peripherally and centrally-acting catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor used as an adjunct to levodopa/carbidopa therapy in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Clinically, COMT inhibitors improve levodopa availability in the CNS, thereby prolonging the motor response to levodopa treatment. Tolcapone usually allows the patient's dosage of levodopa to be lowered, and results in a decrease in the incidence or severity of levodopa dose-related side effects (e.g., dyskinesia, nausea, etc.). With initial therapy, an increase in levodopa-induced side effects may be seen until the dosage of levodopa is adjusted downward. Tolcapone increases daily "on" time and decreases in "off" time. As compared to the other COMT inhibitor, entacapone, tolcapone is more potent and longer acting. Further, entacapone acts only peripherally. However, tolcapone has been associated with a less favorable side effect profile, including life-threatening severe hepatocellular injury; the labeling carries a boxed warning regarding hepatotoxicity. The clinician must monitor the patient for the presence of hepatic injury at baseline and at recommended intervals throughout treatment. FDA approval for tolcapone was granted in 1998.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Tolcapone is a selective and reversible inhibitor of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), however, the exact mechanism of inhibition is unknown. Tolcapone is not a dopamine-receptor agonist. In mammals, COMT is distributed throughout various organs with the highest activities in the liver and kidney. COMT is also present in the heart, lung, smooth muscle, skeletal muscles, intestinal tract, reproductive organs, various glands, adipose tissue, skin, erythrocytes, and neuronal tissues, especially glial cells. Like monoamine oxidase (MAO), COMT is responsible for the metabolism of catecholamines, however, COMT is more specific and more rapid acting than MAO. COMT catalyzes the transfer of the methyl group of S-adenosyl-L-methionine to the phenolic group of substrates that contain a catechol structure. Substrates of COMT include dopa, dopamine, norepinephrine, epinephrine, and their hydroxylated metabolites. In the presence of a decarboxylase inhibitor (e.g., carbidopa), COMT becomes the major metabolizing enzyme for levodopa which results in formation of a metabolite (3-O-methyldopa) that interferes with transport of levodopa into the CNS. This metabolite is also associated with the 'wearing-off' phenomenon. Inhibition of COMT by tolcapone and inhibition of decarboxylase by carbidopa results in more sustained plasma concentrations of levodopa (and lower 3-O-methyldopa concentrations). As a result, more levodopa is available for diffusion into the central nervous system (CNS) where it is converted to dopamine, thereby potentiating the activity of dopamine in the CNS. Cerebrospinal fluid concentrations of levodopa and total dopamine were significantly increased (88% and 92%, respectively) after 8 weeks of therapy with tolcapone and levodopa-carbidopa.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, tolcapone is rapidly absorbed, with a Tmax of approximately 2 hours. The absolute bioavailability following oral administration is about 65%. Food given within 1 hour before and 2 hours after dosing decreases the relative bioavailability by 10 to 20%. However, the drug may be taken with or without food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Tolcapone is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease due to hepatotoxicity risks, which increase with increasing exposure. In patients with moderate cirrhotic liver disease (Child-Pugh Class B), clearance and volume of distribution of unbound tolcapone are reduced by almost 50%. This reduction may increase the average concentration of unbound drug by 2-fold.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    However, the relationship of renal function and tolcapone pharmacokinetics has been investigated using population pharmacokinetics during clinical trials. The data of more than 400 patients have confirmed that over a wide range of creatinine clearance values (30 to 130 mL/minute) the pharmacokinetics of tolcapone are unaffected by renal function. This could be explained by the fact that only a negligible amount of unchanged tolcapone (0.5%) is excreted in the urine. The glucuronide conjugate of tolcapone is mainly excreted in the urine but is also excreted in the bile. Accumulation of this stable and inactive metabolite should not present a risk in renally impaired patients with CrCl above 25 mL/minute. Because of the very high protein binding of tolcapone, no significant removal of the drug by hemodialysis is expected.
  Text
  Tolcapone is administered orally. Tolcapone does not distribute widely into tissues due to its high plasma protein binding. The plasma protein binding is more than 99.9% (primarily to albumin) over the concentration range of 0.32 to 210 mcg/mL. Tolcapone is almost completely metabolized. The main metabolic pathway is glucuronidation to an inactive glucuronide conjugate. Tolcapone is also methylated by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) to 3-O-methyl-tolcapone. In addition, tolcapone metabolism includes hydroxylation of the methyl group to form a primary alcohol, which is subsequently oxidized to the carboxylic acid possibly via CYP450 3A4 and 2A6. Reduction to an amine and subsequent N-acetylation occur to a minor extent. After oral administration of a C-labeled dose of tolcapone, 60% of labeled material was excreted in urine and 40% in feces. The glucuronide metabolite is primarily excreted in the urine but is also excreted in the bile. Approximately 0.5% of unchanged drug is eliminated in the urine. The elimination half-life of tolcapone is 2 to 3 hours and there is no significant accumulation.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9, COMT
Tolcapone may influence the pharmacokinetics of drugs metabolized by COMT. Due to its affinity to CYP2C9 in vitro, tolcapone may interfere with drugs dependent on this metabolic pathway, such as tolbutamide and warfarin. However, in an in vivo interaction study, tolcapone did not change the pharmacokinetics of tolbutamide. Therefore, clinically relevant interactions involving cytochrome P450 2C9 appear unlikely, but caution is recommended if a patient is receiving warfarin due to the limited data. In vitro experiments have found no relevant interactions with substrates for CYP2A6, CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6. An in vivo study with desipramine confirmed an absence of an interaction with CYP2D6.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Tolcapone may be administered with or without food.
During clinical trials, the first dose of the day of tolcapone was always taken together with the first dose of the day of levodopa/carbidopa, and the subsequent doses of tolcapone were given approximately 6 and 12 hours later.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    600 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    600 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Tolcapone is contraindicated in patients with liver disease. Do not initiate tolcapone in a patient who exhibits clinical evidence of liver disease or 2 SGPT/ALT or SGOT/AST values greater than the upper limit of normal (ULN).
During treatment: Discontinue tolcapone if liver enzymes exceed 2 times the ULN or if clinical signs and symptoms suggest the onset of hepatic dysfunction.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 25 mL/minute or greater: No dose adjustment is necessary.
CrCl less than 25 mL/minute: Use with caution. the safety of tolcapone has not been studied. Tolcapone is not expected to be removed by hemodialysis.
