=== Finasteride/Tadalafil (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5372)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Finasteride; tadalafil is an oral combination product containing a 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor (finasteride) with a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor (tadalafil).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Finasteride 5 mg/day with tadalafil 5 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): breast cancer, breast enlargement, decreased ejaculate volume, depression, ejaculation dysfunction, gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), new primary malignancy, orgasm dysfunction, testicular pain, angina, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, syncope, arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, angioedema, flushing, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash, urticaria, infertility, oligospermia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. prostate cancer Prior to initiating treatment with finasteride; tadalafil, consideration should be given to other urological conditions that may cause similar symptoms, including the... Hazardous drug: Finasteride is classified as a hazardous drug.

Brand Names
  - ENTADFI

Dosage Forms
  - ENTADFI 5mg-5mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 capsule (finasteride 5 mg with tadalafil 5 mg) PO once daily, on an empty stomach, for up to 26 weeks.
    Heading
    For the treatment of signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    prostate cancer
    General Information
    Prior to initiating treatment with finasteride; tadalafil, consideration should be given to other urological conditions that may cause similar symptoms, including the presence of pre-existing prostate cancer. Benign prostatic hypertrophy and prostate cancer may coexist. 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors, including finasteride, may increase the risk of development of high-grade prostate cancer. Careful monitoring and assessment of prostate specific antigen (PSA) tests is needed during finasteride use in all treated individuals, and especially in people with existing prostate cancer or at risk for prostate cancer. Carefully monitor patients with large residual urinary volume and/or severely diminished urinary flow for obstructive uropathy (urinary tract obstruction). These patients may not be candidates for finasteride; tadalafil therapy.
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease, hypotension
    General Information
    Individuals with left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (e.g., aortic stenosis, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy) and those with severely impaired autonomic control of blood pressure can be sensitive to the actions of vasodilators, including tadalafil. Finasteride; tadalafil is not recommended for use in individuals with a history of myocardial infarction within the last 90 days, unstable angina or angina with sexual intercourse, New York Heart Association Class II heart failure, New York Heart Association Class III heart failure, or New York Heart Association Class IV heart failure in the last 6 months, uncontrolled cardiac arrhythmias, hypotension (blood pressure less than 90/50 mmHg), uncontrolled hypertension, or stroke within the last 6 months; these populations were not included in clinical safety and efficacy trials for tadalafil. As with other phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors, tadalafil has systemic vasodilatory properties and may cause transient decreases in blood pressure. While this normally would be expected to be of little consequence in most individuals, carefully consider whether individuals with underlying cardiovascular disease could be affected adversely by such vasodilatory effects. Tadalafil may augment the blood pressure-lowering effect of antihypertensive medications.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid use of finasteride; tadalafil in people with severe hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure; there is insufficient data regarding the use of tadalafil in these patients. Cautious use is recommended in people with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or Child-Pugh class B); finasteride is extensively metabolized in the liver and the effect of hepatic impairment on finasteride has not been studied.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Finasteride; tadalafil is not recommended in patients with renal impairment with creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/minute, renal failure, or on dialysis due to increased tadalafil exposure (AUC), limited clinical experience, and the lack of ability to influence clearance by dialysis.
    Headline
    leukemia, multiple myeloma, penile angulation, Peyronie disease, priapism, sickle cell disease
    General Information
    Prolonged erections lasting more than 4 hours and priapism (painful erections lasting more than 6 hours) have been associated with the use of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors like tadalafil. Priapism, if not treated promptly, can result in irreversible damage to the erectile tissue. Patients who have an erection lasting more than 4 hours, whether painful or not, should seek emergency medical attention. Use tadalafil cautiously in patients with an anatomical deformation of the penis, such as penile angulation, cavernosal fibrosis, or Peyronie disease, or with conditions that may predispose patients to priapism, such as sickle cell disease, leukemia, multiple myeloma, or history of priapism.
    Headline
    crowded optic disc, inherited retinal dystrophy, non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy
    General Information
    Individuals with inherited retinal dystrophy, including retinitis pigmentosa, were not included in clinical trials with finasteride; tadalafil and use in this population is not recommended. Non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION), has been reported postmarketing in temporal association with the use of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors, including tadalafil. In most cases, underlying anatomic or vascular risk factors for the development of NAION were present, including low cup to disc ratio (crowded optic disc), age older than 50 years, diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, hyperlipidemia, and smoking. There is an increased risk of NAION in individuals who have already experienced NAION in 1 eye.
    Headline
    blood donor
    General Information
    People treated with finasteride; tadalafil should not be a blood donor until at least 1 month has passed following their last dose. The purpose of this deferred period is to prevent administration of finasteride to a pregnant individual receiving a blood transfusion. Serum levels of finasteride may be detectable following termination of therapy.
    Headline
    bleeding disorder, peptic ulcer disease
    General Information
    Use finasteride; tadalafil with caution in individuals with a bleeding disorder or significant active peptic ulcer disease due to a lack of study in these patients. Tadalafil is an inhibitor of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5), which is found in platelets but has not been shown to increase bleeding times in healthy subjects.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Finasteride; tadalafil is contraindicated for use during pregnancy. Finasteride may cause fetal harm. Finasteride and other 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors, by inhibiting the conversion of testosterone to 5-alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), have the ability to cause external genital abnormalities in the male fetus. This action has been confirmed by animal studies, including in rhesus monkeys. Pregnant people should not handle open, crushed, or broken finasteride; tadalafil capsules because of possible exposure of a male fetus; if contact occurs, wash the contact area immediately with soap and water. With regard to potential finasteride exposure to a pregnant individual through semen of a partner treated with finasteride, one study measured finasteride concentrations in semen and distribution of finasteride into the semen appears to be well below the threshold concentration associated with fetal anomalies in animals. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed in rats or mice following oral administration of tadalafil during organogenesis at exposures up to 44 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD).
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with finasteride; tadalafil. People who may become pregnant should not handle crushed, broken, or open finasteride; tadalafil capsules because of the potential risk from finasteride exposure. Postmarketing reports have described male infertility and/or poor semen quality with finasteride use. Semen quality has been reported to normalize or improve after finasteride discontinuation.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of finasteride; tadalafil during breast-feeding. Finasteride; tadalafil is not indicated for use in lactating individuals and has not been studied in this population.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Finasteride; tadalafil is contraindicated for use during pregnancy. Finasteride may cause fetal harm. Finasteride and other 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors, by inhibiting the conversion of testosterone to 5-alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), have the ability to cause external genital abnormalities in the male fetus. This action has been confirmed by animal studies, including in rhesus monkeys. Pregnant people should not handle open, crushed, or broken finasteride; tadalafil capsules because of possible exposure of a male fetus; if contact occurs, wash the contact area immediately with soap and water. With regard to potential finasteride exposure to a pregnant individual through semen of a partner treated with finasteride, one study measured finasteride concentrations in semen and distribution of finasteride into the semen appears to be well below the threshold concentration associated with fetal anomalies in animals. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed in rats or mice following oral administration of tadalafil during organogenesis at exposures up to 44 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD).
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of finasteride; tadalafil during breast-feeding. Finasteride; tadalafil is not indicated for use in lactating individuals and has not been studied in this population.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and adagrasib for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of adagrasib for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as adagrasib, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on alfuzosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of alfuzosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue alfuzosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and alfuzosin.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and clarithromycin for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of clarithromycin for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if tadalafil and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of tadalafil. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Atazanavir: (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of atazanavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of atazanavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting atazanavir. After at least 1 week of atazanavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Tadalafil is metabolized by CYP3A4, and atazanavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Although the manufacturer of tadalafil provides recommended dosing for coadministration with ritonavir only, the FDA recommends the same dosage adjustment for the coadministration of tadalafil with all protease inhibitors.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and cobicistat for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of cobicistat for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as cobicistat, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of atazanavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of atazanavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting atazanavir. After at least 1 week of atazanavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Tadalafil is metabolized by CYP3A4, and atazanavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Although the manufacturer of tadalafil provides recommended dosing for coadministration with ritonavir only, the FDA recommends the same dosage adjustment for the coadministration of tadalafil with all protease inhibitors.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with berotralstat is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of tadalafil may occur if given with lenacapavir. Avoid coadministration of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension if the patient is receiving lenacapavir. When used for erectile dysfunction in patients receiving lenacapavir, the as needed (PRN) dose of tadalafil should not exceed 10 mg once every 72 hours and the daily dose should not exceed 2.5 mg. For benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider a maximum dose of 2.5 mg daily. Tadalafil is predominately metabolized by CYP3A4. Lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Bosentan reduces tadalafil systemic exposure by 42% and Cmax by 27% with multiple-dose coadministration. Tadalafil has no significant effect on the exposure of bosentan. Bosentan is a substrate and moderate inducer of CYP3A; tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with carbamazepine in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of carbamazepine due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and ceritinib for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of ceritinib for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ceritinib, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and clarithromycin for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of clarithromycin for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and cobicistat for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of cobicistat for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as cobicistat, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with conivaptan is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with crizotinib is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Darunavir: (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of darunavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of darunavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting darunavir. After at least 1 week of darunavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Tadalafil is metabolized by CYP3A4, and darunavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Although the manufacturer of tadalafil provides recommended dosing for coadministration with ritonavir only, the FDA recommends the same dosage adjustment for the coadministration of tadalafil with all protease inhibitors.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and cobicistat for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of cobicistat for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as cobicistat, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of darunavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of darunavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting darunavir. After at least 1 week of darunavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Tadalafil is metabolized by CYP3A4, and darunavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Although the manufacturer of tadalafil provides recommended dosing for coadministration with ritonavir only, the FDA recommends the same dosage adjustment for the coadministration of tadalafil with all protease inhibitors.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and cobicistat for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of cobicistat for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as cobicistat, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of darunavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of darunavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting darunavir. After at least 1 week of darunavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Tadalafil is metabolized by CYP3A4, and darunavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Although the manufacturer of tadalafil provides recommended dosing for coadministration with ritonavir only, the FDA recommends the same dosage adjustment for the coadministration of tadalafil with all protease inhibitors.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as quinidine, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in an increase in tadalafil-induced adverse effects, including hypotension.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with diltiazem is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Tadalafil is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure closely if duloxetine is coadministered with tadalafil due to the risk of additive hypotension. Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue tamsulosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and tamsulosin.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Efavirenz induces CYP3A4 and may decrease serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Efavirenz induces CYP3A4 and may decrease serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Efavirenz induces CYP3A4 and may decrease serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering tadalafil with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated tadalafil plasma concentrations. Tadalafil is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and cobicistat for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of cobicistat for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as cobicistat, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and cobicistat for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of cobicistat for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as cobicistat, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with encorafenib in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of encorafenib due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and ensitrelvir for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of ensitrelvir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as ensitrelvir, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with enzalutamide in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of enzalutamide due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erythromycin is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking tadalafil. Both alcohol and tadalafil, a PDE5 inhibitor, act as mild vasodilators. When mild vasodilators are taken in combination, blood pressure lowering effects may be increased. Substantial consumption of alcohol (e.g., 5 units or greater) in combination with tadalafil can increase the potential for orthostatic signs and symptoms, including an increase in heart rate, decrease in standing blood pressure, dizziness, and headache. Tadalafil (10 mg or 20 mg) did not affect alcohol plasma concentrations and alcohol did not affect tadalafil plasma concentrations.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Etravirine is an inducer of CYP3A4; coadministration may result in decreased tadalafil concentrations. Dosage adjustments may be needed based on clinical efficacy.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fluconazole is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fluvoxamine and tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within a 72 hours of fluvoxamine for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as fluvoxamine, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. It should be noted that during once daily administration of tadalafil, the presence of continuous plasma tadalafil concentrations may change the potential for interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fosamprenavir is necessary. The prescribing information for fosamprenavir recommends to avoid coadministration of tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension and to stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting fosamprenavir. After at least 1 week of fosamprenavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, the prescribing information for fosamprenavir recommends to not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of fosamprenavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with fosphenytoin in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of fosphenytoin due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Grapefruit juice: (Moderate) Tadalafil is metabolized via the CYP3A4 isozyme. Grapefruit juice has been reported to decrease the metabolism of drugs metabolized via this enzyme. Grapefruit juice contains a compound that inhibits CYP3A4 in enterocytes in the GI tract. Tadalafil levels may increase; it is possible that tadalafil-induced side effects could also be increased in some individuals.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with tadalafil, a CYP3A substrate, as tadalafil toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Imatinib: (Major) Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as imatinib, STI-571, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. The manufacturer of tadalafil recommends that in patients receiving concomitant potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, the 'as needed' dose for erectile dysfunction should not exceed 10 mg within a 72 hour time period, and the 'once-daily' dose for erectile dysfunction or benign prostatic hyperplasia should not exceed 2.5 mg. It should be noted that during once daily administration of tadalafil, the presence of continuous plasma tadalafil concentrations may change the potential for interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4. When used for pulmonary arterial hypertension, tadalafil should not be co-administered with potent CYP3A inhibitors.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with tadalafil may result in increased serum concentrations of tadalafil. Tadalafil is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid use of tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole treatment. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of itraconazole for the as needed dose or 2.5 mg daily for the once-daily dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as itraconazole, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. It should be noted that during once daily administration of tadalafil, the presence of continuous plasma tadalafil concentrations may change the potential for interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and ketoconazole for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of ketoconazole for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Concurrent use may increase systemic exposure to tadalafil resulting in adverse effects including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole 200 mg and 400 mg daily increased tadalafil AUC by 107% and 312%, respectively.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and clarithromycin for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of clarithromycin for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of tadalafil may occur if given with lenacapavir. Avoid coadministration of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension if the patient is receiving lenacapavir. When used for erectile dysfunction in patients receiving lenacapavir, the as needed (PRN) dose of tadalafil should not exceed 10 mg once every 72 hours and the daily dose should not exceed 2.5 mg. For benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider a maximum dose of 2.5 mg daily. Tadalafil is predominately metabolized by CYP3A4. Lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Letermovir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of tadalafil may occur if given with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Avoid coadministration of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension if the patient is receiving letermovir and cyclosporine. When used for erectile dysfunction in patients receiving letermovir with cyclosporine, the as needed (PRN) dose of tadalafil should not exceed 10 mg once every 72 hours and the daily dose should not exceed 2.5 mg. Tadalafil is predominately metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, the exposure and maximum plasma concentration of tadalafil increased by up to 312% and 22%, respectively, when administered with another potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. Studies with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors have not been conducted.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and ketoconazole for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of ketoconazole for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Concurrent use may increase systemic exposure to tadalafil resulting in adverse effects including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole 200 mg and 400 mg daily increased tadalafil AUC by 107% and 312%, respectively.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and lonafarnib for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of lonafarnib for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as lonafarnib, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of ritonavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of ritonavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting ritonavir. After at least 1 week of ritonavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Coadministration of ritonavir with tadalafil results in a 124% increase in tadalafil AUC. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. It should be noted that during once daily administration of tadalafil, the presence of continuous plasma tadalafil concentrations may change the potential for interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with lumacaftor; ivacaftor in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with lumacaftor; ivacaftor in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and mifepristone for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of mifepristone for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as mifepristone, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with mitotane in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of mitotane due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by the hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzyme and inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as nefazodone, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in an increase in tadalafil-induced adverse effects, including hypotension.
Nelfinavir: (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of nelfinavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of nelfinavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting nelfinavir. After at least 1 week of nelfinavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Tadalafil is metabolized by CYP3A4, and nelfinavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Although the manufacturer of tadalafil provides recommended dosing for coadministration with ritonavir only, the FDA recommends the same dosage adjustment for the coadministration of tadalafil with all protease inhibitors.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Netupitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant medications that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4, such as tadalafil. The plasma concentrations of tadalafil can increase when co-administered with netupitant; the inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 can last for multiple days.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tadalafil if coadministration with nevirapine is necessary; a dose adjustment may be needed. Concomitant use may decrease tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Nifedipine can have additive hypotensive effects when administered with phosphodiesterase inhibitors (PDE 5 inhibitors). The patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response. For example, in patients whose hypertension was controlled with nifedipine, vardenafil produced mean additional supine systolic/diastolic blood pressure reductions of 3 to 4 mmHg (age group 65 to 69 years) and 5 to 6 mmHg (age group 70 to 80 years) compared to placebo.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nilotinib, an moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, and tadalafil, a CYP3A4 substrate, may result in increased tadalafil levels. A tadalafil dose reduction may be necessary if these drugs are used together.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and tadalafil, when used for pulmonary hypertension, and consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Consider withholding tadalafil, when used for erectile dysfunction, during concomitant receipt of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir. Coadministration may increase tadalafil exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of ritonavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of ritonavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting ritonavir. After at least 1 week of ritonavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Coadministration of ritonavir with tadalafil results in a 124% increase in tadalafil AUC. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. It should be noted that during once daily administration of tadalafil, the presence of continuous plasma tadalafil concentrations may change the potential for interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with nirogacestat is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Nitrates: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Nitroglycerin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Nitroprusside: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of nitroprusside and tadalafil is contraindicated due to the risk of additive hypotension. If the patient has taken tadalafil, at least 48 hours must elapse before nitroprusside administration is considered; monitor hemodynamics closely. In addition, tadalafil may potentiate the nitric oxide-mediated platelet anti-aggregatory effect of nitroprusside.
Oritavancin: (Minor) Concomitant use of oritavancin and tadalafil may decrease the effectiveness of tadalafil; therefore, use caution and monitor therapeutic effects of tadalafil when coadministered. Oritavancin is a weak inducer of CYP3A4 and tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate. Clinical studies have shown that CYP3A4 inducers may reduce tadalafil exposure. The reduced exposure of tadalafil with the coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers can be anticipated to decrease the efficacy of tadalafil for once daily use; however the magnitude of decreased efficacy is unknown. Potent CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided with tadalafil when it is used to treat pulmonary hypertension.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and tadalafil, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of tadalafil. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with phenobarbital in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of phenobarbital due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with phenobarbital in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of phenobarbital due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg.
Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with phenytoin in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of phenytoin due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Posaconazole: (Major) Posaconazole and tadalafil should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for tadalafil-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of tadalafil. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. The manufacturer of tadalafil recommends that in patients receiving concomitant potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, the 'as needed' dose should not exceed 10 mg within a 72 hour time period and the 'once-daily' dose should not exceed 2.5 mg.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with primidone in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of primidone due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine injection may be decreased in patients receiving phosphodiesterase inhibitors. A decreased pressor effect of phenylephrine might occur. Monitor for proper blood pressure when these drugs are used together.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as quinidine, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in an increase in tadalafil-induced adverse effects, including hypotension.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 may reduce tadalafil clearance. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors which may interact with tadalafil include ranolazine. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. The manufacturer of tadalafil recommends that in patients receiving concomitant potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, the 'as needed' dose for erectile dysfunction should not exceed 10 mg within a 72 hour time period, and the 'once-daily' dose for erectile dysfunction or benign prostatic hyperplasia should not exceed 2.5 mg. It should be noted that during once daily administration of tadalafil, the presence of continuous plasma tadalafil concentrations may change the potential for interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and relacorilant for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of relacorilant for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as relacorilant, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib and tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of ribociclib for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tadalafil AUC after a 20-mg single dose by 312% and Cmax by 22%, relative to the values for tadalafil alone. The same strong inhibitor increased the tadalafil AUC after a 10-mg single dose by 107% and Cmax by 15%, relative to the values for tadalafil alone. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in an increase in tadalafil-induced adverse effects, including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib and tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of ribociclib for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tadalafil AUC after a 20-mg single dose by 312% and Cmax by 22%, relative to the values for tadalafil alone. The same strong inhibitor increased the tadalafil AUC after a 10-mg single dose by 107% and Cmax by 15%, relative to the values for tadalafil alone. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in an increase in tadalafil-induced adverse effects, including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with rifampin in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of rifampin due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with rifapentine in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of rifapentine due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Riociguat: (Contraindicated) Use of riociguat and tadalafil is contraindicated due to the risk of hypotension. Do not administer riociguat 24 hours before or within 48 hours after tadalafil. When transitioning therapy, consider initiating riociguat at a starting dose of 0.5 mg PO 3 times daily in patients at risk of hypotension. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension during transition of therapy. PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of riociguat.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Ritonavir: (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of ritonavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of ritonavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting ritonavir. After at least 1 week of ritonavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Coadministration of ritonavir with tadalafil results in a 124% increase in tadalafil AUC. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. It should be noted that during once daily administration of tadalafil, the presence of continuous plasma tadalafil concentrations may change the potential for interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4.
Sapropterin: (Moderate) Sapropterin acts as a cofactor in the synthesis of nitric oxide and may cause vasorelaxation. Caution should be exercised when administering sapropterin in combination with drugs that affect nitric oxide-mediated vasorelaxation such as phosphodiesterase inhibitors. When given together these agents may produce an additive reduction in blood pressure. The combination of sapropterin and a phosphodiesterase (PDE5) inhibitor did not significantly reduce blood pressure when administered concomitantly in animal studies. The additive effect of these agents has not been studied in humans.
Saquinavir: (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of saquinavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of saquinavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting saquinavir. After at least 1 week of saquinavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Tadalafil is metabolized by CYP3A4, and saquinavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Although the manufacturer of tadalafil provides recommended dosing for coadministration with ritonavir only, the FDA recommends the same dosage adjustment for the coadministration of tadalafil with all protease inhibitors.
Saw Palmetto, Serenoa repens: (Moderate) Saw palmetto may inhibit 5 alpha-reductase, preventing the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. This action is similar to the action of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, such as dutasteride and finasteride. Co-use is likely to be common by patients, but the effects of co-use are not known. In theory, the effects could be additive, but it is not known if the added effects would be beneficial or harmful. Clinicians should be alert for any unusual effects if patients ingest saw palmetto supplements while taking 5-alpha reductase inhibitors.
Sepiapterin: (Moderate) Monitor for hypotension during concomitant use of sepiapterin and phosphodiesterase inhibitors. Both medications cause vasodilation and concomitant use may increase the risk for blood pressure reductions.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on silodosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of silodosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue silodosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and silodosin.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Contraindicated) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation and can amplify the vasodilatory effects of phosphodiesterase inhibitors (e.g., sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil) if coadministered; severe hypotension may occur. Coadministration of sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil to patients who are concurrently using organic nitrates or nitrites in any form is considered contraindicated.
Soy Isoflavones: (Minor) Theoretically, because the soy isoflavones appear to inhibit type II 5-alpha-reductase, the soy isoflavones may have additive effects with other 5-alpha reductase inhibitors.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with St. John's wort in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of St. John's wort due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue tamsulosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and tamsulosin.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg. (Minor) Terazosin has been reported to increase peak concentrations of finasteride by 16% and AUC by 31% when the two agents are coadministered. The interaction is of minor importance.
Tipranavir: (Major) For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of tipranavir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Avoid the use of tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension during the initiation of tipranavir therapy. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting tipranavir. After at least 1 week of tipranavir therapy, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on tolerability. Tadalafil is metabolized by CYP3A4, and tipranavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Substantially increased tadalafil plasma concentrations may result in increased adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Although the manufacturer of tadalafil provides recommended dosing for coadministration with ritonavir only, the FDA recommends the same dosage adjustment for the coadministration of tadalafil with all protease inhibitors.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with verapamil is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and tucatinib for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of tucatinib for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as tucatinib, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Vardenafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and vardenafil. The safety and efficacy of combinations of tadalafil and other phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitors, such as vardenafil, has not been studied.
Vemurafenib: (Minor) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as tadalafil, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of tadalafil when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with verapamil is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Vericiguat: (Contraindicated) Use of vericiguat and tadalafil is contraindicated due to the risk of hypotension. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension during transition of therapy. PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of vericiguat.
Vigabatrin: (Major) Vigabatrin should not be used with phosphodiesterase inhibitors, which is associated with serious ophthalmic effects (e.g., retinopathy or glaucoma) unless the benefit of treatment clearly outweighs the risks.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and clarithromycin for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of clarithromycin for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voriconazole and tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg of tadalafil within 72 hours of voriconazole for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tadalafil AUC after a 20-mg single dose by 312% and Cmax by 22%, relative to the values for tadalafil alone. The same strong inhibitor increased the tadalafil AUC after a 10-mg single dose by 107% and Cmax by 15%, relative to the values for tadalafil alone. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in an increase in tadalafil-induced adverse effects, including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    This monograph discusses the most relevant side effects of the use of finasteride and tadalafil together for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Consult individual drug monographs for more detailed information.
    Headline
    breast cancer, breast enlargement, decreased ejaculate volume, depression, ejaculation dysfunction, gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), new primary malignancy, orgasm dysfunction, testicular pain
    General Information
    In a 4-year placebo-controlled safety study of 1,524 patients treated with finasteride 5 mg daily compared to 1,516 taking placebo, the most common side effects were related to sexual function. In the finasteride group, 3.7% of patients discontinued treatment due to changes in sexual functioning compared to 2.1% in the placebo group. In monotherapy studies with finasteride, impotence (erectile dysfunction) (8.1%), decreased libido (6.4%), and decreased ejaculate volume (3.7%) were most commonly reported at incidences higher than with placebo. Other effects reported at higher incidences with finasteride use vs. placebo included breast enlargement (0.5%) and breast tenderness (0.4%). There was no significant difference between finasteride and placebo in the incidences of impotence, decreased libido, and ejaculation dysfunction in years 2 to 4 of the study. Many of these same effects were also seen in the 4 to 6-year Medical Therapy of Prostatic Symptoms (MTOPS) study of men with symptomatic BPH treated with finasteride, an alpha blocker, or combination treatment. Commonly reported adverse reactions in this study with finasteride treatment included impotence (18.5%), abnormal ejaculation (ejaculation dysfunction) (7.2%), abnormal sexual function (2.5%), and gynecomastia (2.2%). A new primary malignancy was reported in some men receiving finasteride in this study; there were 4 cases of breast cancer in men treated with finasteride and no cases in men not receiving finasteride. The relationship between use of finasteride and male breast cancer is not known. Other postmarketing adverse reactions reported with finasteride use have included decreased libido and libido disorders that continued after discontinuation of treatment, depression, hematospermia, testicular pain that continued after discontinuation of treatment, problems with ejaculation or erectile dysfunction that continued after stopping the medication, and orgasm dysfunction or other orgasm disorders. Erectile dysfunction (ED) with the combination of finasteride with tadalafil may occur at a lower incidence than with finasteride alone; however, incidences of ED with combination therapy are not available at this time to compare the use of finasteride alone vs. combination use with tadalafil.
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    Dizziness (1%, tadalafil) and headache (2%, finasteride and 2% or more, tadalafil) have been reported during clinical trials of finasteride and tadalafil monotherapy. Dizziness with finasteride occurred at rates lower than with placebo. As with other PDE5 inhibitors, tadalafil has mild systemic vasodilatory properties that may result in dizziness and headache. The substantial consumption of alcohol while taking finasteride; tadalafil can worsen these effects of tadalafil and excessive alcohol ingestion should be avoided.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    angina, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, syncope
    General Information
    As with other PDE5 inhibitors, tadalafil has mild systemic vasodilatory properties that may result in transient decreases in blood pressure. The use of finasteride; tadalafil may cause hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, and syncope. The following events (approximate incidence less than 2%) were reported in controlled clinical trials of tadalafil including trials for an unapproved use of finasteride; tadalafil: angina pectoris, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, myocardial infarction, postural or orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, syncope, and sinus tachycardia. Patients taking antihypertensive medications (particularly alpha-blockers) may be at increased risk of symptomatic hypotension and syncope due to the additive vasodilatory effects of tadalafil. The use of nitrates or nitrites with finasteride; tadalafil is contraindicated due to the risk of significant hypotensive effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Back pain, musculoskeletal pain (pain in extremity), or myalgia has been reported in tadalafil clinical pharmacology trials, typically occurring 12 to 24 hours after dosing and resolving within 48 hours. Pain was reported as mild or moderate and often resolved without treatment, though some patients reported severe pain (less than 5% of reported cases). When medical treatment was needed, acetaminophen or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications were generally effective, though a small percentage of subjects required codeine for relief. Data from clinical trials indicate rates of back pain to be approximately 2.4%, pain in extremity 1.4%, and myalgia 1.2% for patients taking tadalafil monotherapy. In the 1-year open label extension study, back pain (5.5%) and myalgia (1.3%) were reported. Diagnostic testing was performed but found no evidence of underlying pathology that was medically significant. Arthralgia and neck pain have also been reported in controlled clinical trials of tadalafil for uses other than BPH. In these trials, rates of musculoskeletal pain were less than 2%.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia
    General Information
    Dyspepsia (2.4%) and diarrhea (1.4%) was reported with once-daily use of tadalafil in monotherapy trials for BPH at incidences higher than with placebo. Upper abdominal pain was a reason for tadalafil discontinuation in a few subjects in monotherapy trials. In placebo-controlled studies with tadalafil use " as needed", diarrhea was reported more frequently (2.5%) in adults 65 years of age and older who were treated with tadalafil. The following events (approximate incidence less than 2%) were reported in controlled clinical trials of tadalafil including trials for an unapproved use of finasteride; tadalafil: elevated hepatic enzymes, dry mouth (xerostomia), dysphagia, esophagitis, gastritis, GGTP increased, loose stools, nausea, upper abdominal pain, vomiting, gastroesophageal reflux disease, hemorrhoidal hemorrhage, and rectal hemorrhage.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    angioedema, flushing, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Flushing (2% or more) has been reported with tadalafil as monotherapy in clinical trials and is likely due to the vasodilatory effects of the drug. Dermatologic reactions reported with tadalafil postmarketing (less than 2%) have included rash, sweating (hyperhidrosis), and pruritus. During clinical trials, rash (unspecified) was reported in approximately 0.5% of patients receiving finasteride treatment and at rates higher than with placebo. Postmarketing reports for finasteride also include hypersensitivity reactions such as pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema (including swelling of the lips, tongue, throat, and face).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    priapism
    General Information
    Patients taking finasteride; tadalafil may be at risk of experiencing prolonged erections (lasting longer than 4 hours) or priapism (a painful erection lasting more than 6 hours) and should be instructed to seek emergency medical attention for these concerns. Phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitors including tadalafil, have been associated with this reaction. If not treated properly, these effects can cause irreversible damage to erectile tissue.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hearing loss, tinnitus
    General Information
    Patients who are taking finasteride; tadalafil and experience sudden hearing loss or a sudden decrease in hearing should stop taking the medication and seek medical attention immediately. These events, which may be accompanied by tinnitus and dizziness, have been reported in temporal association to the intake of PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil. It is not possible to determine whether these events are related directly to the use of PDE5 inhibitors or to other factors.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hearing loss
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blepharedema, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, lacrimation, non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, ocular pain, visual impairment
    General Information
    Stop tadalafil use in the event of a sudden visual impairment in one or both eyes. Such an event may be a sign of non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION), a rare condition and a cause of decreased vision, including permanent loss of vision, that has rarely been reported postmarketing in temporal association with the use of all PDE5 inhibitors. Based on published literature, the annual incidence of NAION is 2.5 to 11.8 cases per 100,000 in males aged 50 years and older. Postmarketing reports of ocular side effects with tadalafil use (less than 2%) have included cases of blurred vision, changes in color vision, conjunctivitis (including conjunctival hyperemia), ocular pain, lacrimation increase, swelling of eyelids (blepharedema).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blepharedema
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lacrimation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    infertility, oligospermia, spermatogenesis inhibition
    General Information
    Finasteride may cause poor sperm quality, including spermatogenesis inhibition or oligospermia, decreased sperm motility, or decreased semen volume. Consider the potential effects on semen when assessing a male with infertility who is receiving finasteride treatment. Based on studies in animals, a decrease in spermatogenesis was observed in dogs receiving tadalafil, but not in rats.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      oligospermia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      spermatogenesis inhibition
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    teratogenesis
    General Information
    By inhibiting the conversion of testosterone to DHT, finasteride and other 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors have the ability to cause teratogenesis, specifically abnormalities in the external genitalia of the male fetus (e.g., hypospadias).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      teratogenesis
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Finasteride; tadalafil is an oral combination product containing a 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor (finasteride) with a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor (tadalafil). The combination is indicated for the initial treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in adults with an enlarged prostate for a duration of up to 26 weeks. The benefit of these medications in combination was demonstrated in a double-blind, parallel-design study that randomized 696 men (46 to 85 years of age), to finasteride 5 mg with either tadalafil 5 mg or placebo. Individuals with comorbid conditions that commonly occur with BPH, such as erectile dysfunction, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease, were included in the trial. The combination treatment demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in BPH signs and symptoms compared to the finasteride-placebo group at 12 weeks. Improvements in total symptom score (the International Prostate Symptom Score, or IPSS) were seen at week 4 (tadalafil -5.5 vs placebo -2.3; p less than 0.001) and remained low through the 26-week study duration. The magnitude of treatment difference waned from 1.7 points at week 4 to 1 point at week 26. Additional benefit beyond 26 weeks is not known.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The use of finasteride in combination with tadalafil improves signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) by targeting the condition via 2 distinct mechanisms.
Finasteride: Finasteride is a specific inhibitor of steroid type II 5-alpha reductase, an intracellular enzyme that converts testosterone into 5-alpha dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in the prostate gland, liver, and skin. DHT induces androgenic effects by binding to androgen receptors in the cell nuclei of these tissues. DHT is also necessary for the development and enlargement of the prostate gland. Finasteride specifically and competitively inhibits type II 5-alpha reductase, decreasing the conversion of testosterone to DHT and subsequently reducing its effects on the prostate gland. Finasteride has no affinity for the androgen receptor.
Tadalafil: Tadalafil is a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5), which is found in the smooth muscle throughout the body. Although the specific mechanism for reducing BPH symptoms has not been established, the effect is likely related to PDE5 inhibition in the prostate, bladder, and the related vascular supply.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    When finasteride was administered to healthy young adult subjects (n=15), the oral bioavailability of the 5 mg dose was 63% (range: 34 to 108%). The absolute oral bioavailability of tadalafil has not been determined. The maximum concentration for tadalafil is reached at approximately 3 hours (range: 1 to 4 hours). The Cmax of finasteride and tadalafil were decreased by 29% and 23%, respectively, after administration of the finasteride; tadalafil product following consumption of a high-fat, high-calorie meal (i.e., 1,011 calorie meal in which 53% of calories were derived from fat) compared with the fasted state. The administration of the finasteride; tadalafil product with high-fat, high-calorie meal did not affect the extent of absorption for finasteride and tadalafil. However, the capsules are recommended to be taken without food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of finasteride have not been studied. Tadalafil exposure in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh Class A or B) was comparable to healthy subjects in clinical pharmacology studies. However, there is insufficient data available for patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh Class C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Due to increased tadalafil exposure (AUC), limited clinical data, and the lack of dialysis to influence renal clearance, finasteride; tadalafil product use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/minute or in patients on hemodialysis.
Finasteride: In patients with creatinine clearance of 9 to 55 mL/minute, the pharmacokinetics (AUC, maximum concentrations, half-life and protein binding) of a single dose of finasteride were similar to values obtained in healthy volunteers. The concentration of metabolites in the plasma were significantly higher in patients with impaired renal function (seen as a 60% increase in total AUC), but the increased plasma concentrations of these metabolites is not thought to be clinically meaningful.
Tadalfafil: In tadalafil studies, medication exposure doubled in patients with a creatinine clearance of 30 to 80 mL/minute. Subjects with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis experienced a 2-fold increase in maximum concentrations and a 2.7 to 4.8-fold increase in tadalafil exposure following single-dose administration of 10 mg or 20 mg oral doses, respectively. Exposure to tadalafil metabolites was also 2 to 4-fold higher in patients with renal impairment compared to individuals with normal renal function. The effect of hemodialysis in eliminating tadalafil and metabolites in these patients was negligible.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    This combination product has not been studied in pediatric patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No dosage adjustment of finasteride; tadalafil is necessary in geriatric adults. Although the elimination rate of finasteride is decreased in geriatric adults, these findings are of no clinical significance. In patients with BPH following single and multiple doses of 20 mg tadalafil, no statistically significant differences in exposure (AUC and Cmax) were observed between elderly (70 to 85 years) and younger adult (60 years of age or younger) subjects. Healthy male elderly subjects (65 years of age or more) had a lower renal clearance of tadalafil, resulting 25% higher exposure (AUC) with no effect on Cmax relative to that observed in healthy younger adult males (19 to 45 years of age). No dose adjustment is warranted based on age alone. However, greater sensitivity to medications in some older individuals should be considered.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of finasteride or tadalafil has not been studied.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Diabetes Mellitus
When a 10 mg tadalafil oral dose was given to male patients with diabetes mellitus, the medication exposure (AUC) was 19% lower and maximum concentration was 5% lower than in healthy participants. However, no dose adjustment is warranted with finasteride; tadalafil in patients with diabetes mellitus.
  Text
  Finasteride; tadalafil is administered orally. Most pharmacokinetic data for the finasteride; tadalafil product has been obtained from monotherapy studies of each ingredient.
Finasteride: The mean steady-state volume of distribution of finasteride is 76 L. Approximately 90% of finasteride is protein bound. When examining finasteride distribution into semen, studies conducted in healthy male subjects determined the amount of finasteride in semen was approximately 50- to 100-fold less than the dose of finasteride that had no effect on circulating DHT levels in men. Finasteride is metabolized extensively in the liver, primarily through CYP3A4. Finasteride has two metabolites (t-butyl side chain monohydroxylated and monocarboxylic acid metabolites) that possess no more than 20% of the 5-alpha-reductase inhibitory activity of finasteride. After oral dosing, 39% of a finasteride oral dose is eliminated in the urine and 57% in the feces. The half-life is approximately 6 hours.
Tadalafil: Following oral administration, tadalafil distributes into the tissues, with a volume of distribution of approximately 63 L. About 94% of tadalafil is bound to plasma proteins. Less than 0.0005% of an oral dose appeared in the semen of healthy subjects. Tadalafil undergoes metabolism via CYP3A4 to a catechol metabolite, which undergoes subsequent methylation and glucuronidation to form methylcatechol and methylcatechol glucuronide conjugate metabolites. Tadalafil is excreted as metabolites, with 36% of a dose eliminated in the urine and 61% eliminated in the feces. The half-life is approximately 22 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use of strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 is not recommended with tadalafil as such drugs may increase tadalafil exposure. No pharmaockinetic drug interactions of clinical importance have been identified for finasteride; finasteride does not appear to affect the CYP450-linked drug metabolizing enzyme system.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
Finasteride is classified as a hazardous drug.
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Capsules
Administer at the same time each day.
Administer without food on an empty stomach.
People who are pregnant or who may become pregnant should not handle crushed or open capsules; the finasteride component may cause fetal harm. Exposure to whole capsules is not expected to cause harm as long as the capsules are not swallowed.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Finasteride 5 mg/day with tadalafil 5 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Finasteride 5 mg/day with tadalafil 5 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh Class C): Use is not recommended due to insufficient tadalafil data in these patients.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl less than 50 mL/minute or on hemodialysis: Use is not recommended.
