=== Brimonidine/Timolol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3589)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Brimonidine; timolol is an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist with a beta-adrenergic receptor inhibitor indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension who require adjunctive or replacement therapy due to inadequately controlled IOP.

Routes: ophthalmic; Common adult doses: 2 drops/day per affected eye.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): angina, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, edema, heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, palpitations, pulmonary edema, sinus tachycardia, stroke, syncope, alopecia, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, diaphoresis, erythema, fever, laryngospasm, peripheral vasodilation, pruritus, psoriaform rash, psoriasis, rash (unspecified), skin hyperpigmentation, skin irritation, urticaria, anxiety, asthenia, confusion

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: This monograph discusses the contraindications/precautions of the brimonidine; timolol combination product.

Brand Names
  - Combigan

Dosage Forms
  - Brimonidine Tartrate 0.2%, Timolol Maleate 0.5% Ophthalmic drops, solution
  - Combigan 0.2%-0.5% Ophthalmic Solution

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Ophthalmic dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Instill 1 drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. If more than 1 topical ophthalmic drug is being used, administer them at least 5 minutes apart.
        Heading
        Adolescents and Children 2 years and older
        Dosage Description
        Instill 1 drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. If more than 1 topical ophthalmic drug is being used, administer them at least 5 minutes apart.
    Heading
    For the treatment of glaucoma or ocular hypertension

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the contraindications/precautions of the brimonidine; timolol combination product. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.
 
The use of brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with documented hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation.
 
Brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution should be used with caution in patients taking MAOI therapy (see Drug Interactions).
 
Timolol is a non-selective beta-blocker and should be avoided in patients with pulmonary disease; alternative selective ophthalmic beta-1-blockers (e.g., betaxolol, levobetaxolol) are preferred in the treatment of glaucoma in patients at risk for bronchospasm. Timolol is contraindicated in patients with a history of bronchial asthma or other pulmonary disease (e.g., severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), emphysema, bronchitis) in which acute bronchospasm would put them at risk. Timolol should be used with extreme caution (use alternative non-selective beta-blocking agents where possible) in patients with mild to moderate COPD, emphysema, or bronchitis, or history of bronchospastic disease other than bronchial asthma. Severe respiratory reactions, including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma, have been reported with topical application of beta-adrenergic blocking agents.
 
Since ophthalmically administered timolol is absorbed systemically, all of the precautions and contraindications pertaining to systemically-administered beta-blockers should be carefully considered prior to prescribing timolol. Pre-existing cardiac disease increases the risk of adverse reactions to systemic beta-blockers. Due to the potential for systemic effects from the timolol component, brimonidine; timolol (Combigan) is contraindicated in patients with sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, second or third degree AV block, overt heart failure, or cardiogenic shock. Treatment with brimonidine; timolol should be discontinued at the first signs of cardiac failure. Rare deaths have been reported in patients at high risk for cardiac complications secondary to topical treatment with beta-blockers, particularly in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction. Timolol should be used with caution in patients with other circulatory disorders including hypotension, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, vasospastic angina, and Raynaud's disease.
 
Brimonidine; timolol (Combigan) contains timolol. Beta-blocking agents should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to patients with diabetes mellitus (especially those with labile diabetes) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Beta-blockers may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia.
 
Because of potential effects of beta-blockade on blood pressure and pulse, beta-blockers should be used with caution in patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency (cerebrovascular disease) or stroke. If signs or symptoms suggesting reduced cerebral blood flow develop following initiation of beta-blocker, alternative therapy should be considered.
 
Brimonidine; timolol (Combigan) should be used with caution in patients with hyperthyroidism or thyrotoxicosis. Brimonidine; timolol contains timolol which is systemically absorbed and can mask the tachycardia that can otherwise be a useful monitoring parameter in thyroid disease. Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta-blocker therapy that might precipitate a thyroid storm.
 
Ophthalmic administration of timolol, via brimonidine; timolol, can result in systemic absorption of the beta-blocker timolol. While the actual relationship between depression and beta-blockers has not been definitively established, beta-blockers should be used with caution in patients with major depression.
 
Because brimonidine; timolol may potentiate vascular insufficiency, it should be used with caution in patients with thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease).
 
Because brimonidine; timolol may potentiate vascular insufficiency, it should be used with caution in patients with orthostatic hypotension.
 
Brimonidine; timolol (Combigan) contains the beta-blocker timolol. Beta-blockers may potentiate muscle weakness and double vision in patients with myasthenia gravis. Ophthalmic administration of timolol can result in systemic absorption; therefore, use brimonidine; timolol cautiously in patients with myasthenia gravis.
 
Ophthalmic administration of timolol, via brimonidine; timolol, can result in systemic timolol absorption. Due to the potential for reported cardiac complications from concomitant therapy of beta-adrenergic blockers and general anesthesia, gradual withdrawal of ophthalmic medications containing beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agents may be appropriate in patients undergoing elective surgery.
 
Ophthalmic administration of timolol, via brimonidine; timolol, can result in systemic timolol absorption. Brimonidine; timolol should be used with caution in patients with hepatic disease, as reduced doses of systemically administered timolol are recommended for patients with hepatic disease because of the potential for reduced drug clearance. There have been no studies on safe use of the brimonidine component in these patients.
 
Ophthalmic administration of timolol, via brimonidine; timolol, can result in systemic timolol absorption. Although timolol is only 15% excreted renally, marked hypotensive responses have occurred when timolol is administered systemically in patients with severe renal disease or renal impairment, in patients undergoing dialysis, after 20 mg doses. Administer brimonidine; timolol with caution in patients with renal failure requiring dialysis. Timolol is removed by hemodialysis when tested in vitro; however, a study of patients with renal failure has shown that timolol does not dialyze readily. There have been no studies on safe use of the brimonidine component in these patients.
 
Brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution (Combigan) contains benzalkonium chloride, a preservative that may be absorbed by soft contact lenses. Patients should remove contact lenses prior to instilling brimonidine; timolol and wait 15 minutes before replacing them.
 
The use of multiple dose containers of ophthalmic products has been associated with bacterial keratitis. Inadvertent contamination of the product may occur if the patient has an ocular infection or corneal abrasion. Use brimonidine; timolol cautiously if there is any damage to the ocular epithelial surface.
 
Brimonidine; timolol is classified as pregnancy category C by the FDA. No studies of brimonidine; timolol in pregnant women have been performed. Use in pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the risk to the fetus.
 
It should be noted that concentrations of timolol in breast milk can be three times those in the maternal blood; although, the American Academy of Pediatrics considers timolol to be generally compatible with breast-feeding. It is not known if brimonidine is excreted into breast milk. If brimonidine; timolol is used in a woman who is breast-feeding, the breast-fed child should be closely monitored for adverse reactions; if adverse reactions associated with brimonidine; timolol are discovered, evaluate the continued use of the drug.
 
Brimonidine 0.2% ophthalmic formulation as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers has been evaluated in children aged 2—7 years; the frequency of drug discontinuation due to somnolence is approximately 16%. The incidence of somnolence during brimonidine therapy appears to be substantially higher (50—83% frequency) in children aged = 7 years (25% frequency). The safety and effectiveness of brimonidine and/or timolol in children < 2 years has not been established, and is not recommended. Brimonidine use in young children and infants has been associated with agitation, apnea, bradycardia, convulsions, cyanosis, depression, dyspnea, emotional instability, hypotension, hypothermia, hypotonia, hypoventilation, irritability, lethargy, somnolence, and stupor. In neonates, brimonidine has been reported to rarely cause apnea, hypotension, hypothermia, and hypotonia.
 
In general, beta-blockers can be used safely in elderly patients, however these patients may have unpredictable responses to systemic beta-blockade. Elderly patients appear to be more likely to experience adverse systemic effects following ophthalmic application of beta-blockers. The manufacturer states that no overall differences in the safety or effectiveness of brimonidine; timolol (Combigan) have been observed between elderly and younger patients.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: This monograph discusses the contraindications/precautions of the brimonidine; timolol combination product. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.
Use brimonidine; timolol cautiously if there is any damage to the ocular epithelial surface. The use of multiple dose containers of ophthalmic products has been associated with bacterial keratitis. Inadvertent contamination of the product may occur if the patient has an ocular infection or corneal abrasion.
    Headline
    asthma, bronchospasm, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Brimonidine; timolol is contraindicated in patients with reactive airway disease including bronchial asthma, a history of bronchial asthma, severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (e.g., emphysema, bronchitis), and other diseases or disorders associated with bronchospasm. Timolol maleate can be absorbed systemically after topical ophthalmic administration, and the same types of adverse reactions seen with systemic administration of beta-adrenergic blocking agents can be seen following the administration of brimonidine; timolol. For example, severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma, and rarely death in association with cardiac failure have been reported following systemic or ophthalmic administration of timolol maleate. Additionally, ophthalmic beta-blockers may impair compensatory tachycardia and increase the risk of hypotension.
    Headline
    hyperthyroidism
    General Information
    Brimonidine; timolol should be used with caution in patients with hyperthyroidism or thyrotoxicosis. Brimonidine; timolol contains timolol which is systemically absorbed and can mask the tachycardia that can otherwise be a useful monitoring parameter in thyroid disease. Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta-blocker therapy that might precipitate a thyroid storm.
    Headline
    acute heart failure, bradycardia, cardiogenic shock, heart failure, second or third-degree AV block
    General Information
    Brimonidine; timolol is contraindicated in sinus bradycardia, second or third-degree AV block, cardiogenic shock, or acute heart failure. Sympathetic stimulation is necessary in supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure, and beta blockade carries the potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure. In patients without a history of heart failure, continued depression of the myocardium with beta-blocking agents over a period of time can, in some cases, lead to cardiac failure. At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure, brimonidine; timolol should be discontinued.
    Headline
    cerebrovascular insufficiency, coronary artery disease, depression, orthostatic hypotension, Raynaud phenomenon, thromboangiitis obliterans
    General Information
    Use brimonidine; timolol with caution in individuals with depression, cerebral insufficiency (cerebrovascular insufficiency), coronary insufficiency (coronary artery disease), Raynaud phenomenon, orthostatic hypotension, or thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease) due to risk for potentiation of vascular insufficiency.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, fasting
    General Information
    The timolol component of brimonidine; timolol is a beta-blocker. Use beta-blocking agents with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia (e.g., those who are fasting) or in patients with diabetes mellitus (especially those with labile diabetes) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Beta-blockers may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia.
    Headline
    myasthenia gravis
    General Information
    Brimonidine; timolol contains the beta-blocker timolol. Beta-blockers have been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms (e.g., diplopia, ptosis, and generalized weakness). Timolol has been reported rarely to increase muscle weakness in some patients with myasthenia gravis or myasthenic symptoms. Therefore, use brimonidine; timolol cautiously in patients with myasthenia gravis.
    Headline
    children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    The use of brimonidine; timolol is contraindicated in neonates, infants, and children younger than 2 years. Brimonidine use in young children and infants has been associated with agitation, apnea, bradycardia, convulsions, cyanosis, depression, dyspnea, emotional instability, hypotension, hypothermia, hypotonia, hypoventilation, irritability, lethargy, somnolence, and stupor. In neonates, brimonidine has been reported to rarely cause apnea, hypotension, hypothermia, and hypotonia. Brimonidine 0.2% ophthalmic formulation as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers has been evaluated in children aged 2 to 7 years; the frequency of drug discontinuation due to somnolence is approximately 16%. The incidence of somnolence during brimonidine therapy appears to be substantially higher (50 to 83% frequency) in children aged younger than 7 years compared to older children aged 7 years or older (25% frequency).
    Headline
    atopy
    General Information
    While taking beta-blockers, patients with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens (atopy) may be more reactive to repeated challenge, whether accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reactions.
    Headline
    major surgery, planned procedure
    General Information
    Brimonidine; timolol contains the beta-blocker timolol which is absorbed systemically. General anesthetics can potentiate the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers and can produce prolonged hypotension. Patients receiving beta-blockers before or during a major surgery involving general anesthetics that possess negative inotropic effects (e.g., ether or cyclopropane) should be monitored closely for signs of heart failure. The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta-adrenergic blocking agents prior to major surgery is controversial. Beta-adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to beta-adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli. Severe, protracted hypotension and difficulty in restarting the heart have been reported after surgery in patients receiving beta-blockers. For these reasons, in patients undergoing a planned procedure or elective surgery, gradual withdrawal of ophthalmic beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agents may be appropriate, depending on an evaluation of the potential risks and benefits.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies regarding the use of brimonidine; timolol during human pregnancy. Limited data from postmarketing safety reports and published literature are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk. In pregnant rats, orally administered brimonidine crossed the placenta, and limited amounts entered into fetal circulation. However, brimonidine was not teratogenic when administered orally during early gestation in rats (days 6 to 15) and rabbits (days 6 to 18). Doses given represent systemic exposures 580 and 37 times higher, respectively, than the recommended human ophthalmic dose (MRHOD). Similarly, no evidence of fetal malformations was observed in mice, rats, or rabbits administered oral timolol doses approximately 4,200 times the MRHOD.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use brimonidine; timolol with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of brimonidine in human milk after ophthalmic use; however, limited data have not identified adverse reactions in the breastfed child.  Timolol is present in human milk after administration of ophthalmic drops, but concentrations are not considered clinically significant. Despite this, FDA-approved labeling recommends avoiding brimonidine; timolol during breast-feeding due to the potential risk of serious side effects, including central nervous system depression and apnea, in the breastfed child. If use is necessary, reduce systemic absorption by applying nasolacrimal occlusion for at least 1 minute after instillation and wiping away excess solution. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies regarding the use of brimonidine; timolol during human pregnancy. Limited data from postmarketing safety reports and published literature are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk. In pregnant rats, orally administered brimonidine crossed the placenta, and limited amounts entered into fetal circulation. However, brimonidine was not teratogenic when administered orally during early gestation in rats (days 6 to 15) and rabbits (days 6 to 18). Doses given represent systemic exposures 580 and 37 times higher, respectively, than the recommended human ophthalmic dose (MRHOD). Similarly, no evidence of fetal malformations was observed in mice, rats, or rabbits administered oral timolol doses approximately 4,200 times the MRHOD.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use brimonidine; timolol with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of brimonidine in human milk after ophthalmic use; however, limited data have not identified adverse reactions in the breastfed child.  Timolol is present in human milk after administration of ophthalmic drops, but concentrations are not considered clinically significant. Despite this, FDA-approved labeling recommends avoiding brimonidine; timolol during breast-feeding due to the potential risk of serious side effects, including central nervous system depression and apnea, in the breastfed child. If use is necessary, reduce systemic absorption by applying nasolacrimal occlusion for at least 1 minute after instillation and wiping away excess solution. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying condition.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Adenosine: (Moderate) Use adenosine with caution in the presence of beta blockers due to the potential for additive or synergistic depressant effects on the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Alfentanil may cause bradycardia. The risk of significant hypotension and/or bradycardia during therapy with alfentanil is increased in patients receiving beta-blockers. (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Allergen Immunotherapy (selected): (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving beta-blocker therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing beta-blocker therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving beta-blockers should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped, patients should not receive amifostine.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of timolol with amiodarone may cause additive electrophysiologic effects (slow sinus rate or worsen AV block), resulting in symptomatic bradycardia, sinus arrest, and atrioventricular block. This is particularly likely in patients with preexisting partial AV block or sinus node dysfunction. Because amiodarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, decreased clearance of timolol, which is a CYP2D6 substrate, is also possible. Caution and close monitoring are recommended during coadministration; a dose reduction of one or both drugs may be needed based on response. It should be noted that post-hoc analysis of amiodarone therapy in patients after acute myocardial infarction in two clinical trials revealed that amiodarone in addition to a beta-blocker significantly lowered the incidence of cardiac and arrhythmic death or resuscitated cardiac arrest when compared with amiodarone or beta-blocker therapy alone.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Although concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension, barbiturates, as a class, can enhance the hepatic metabolism of beta-blockers that are significantly metabolized by the liver. Beta-blockers that may be affected include betaxolol, labetalol, metoprolol, pindolol, propranolol, and timolol. Clinicians should closely monitor patients blood pressure during times of coadministration. (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Antithyroid agents: (Minor) Hyperthyroidism may cause increased clearance of beta blockers that possess a high extraction ratio. A dose reduction of some beta-blockers may be needed when a hyperthyroid patient treated with methimazole becomes euthyroid.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
ARIPiprazole: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and timolol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased timolol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of timolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the timolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates. (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists. (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) Beta-blockers should generally be withheld before dipyridamole-stress testing. Monitor the heart rate carefully following the dipyridamole injection. (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists. (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Atazanavir can prolong the PR interval. Coadministration with other agents that prolong the PR interval, like beta blockers, may result in elevated risk of conduction disturbances and atrioventricular block.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Atazanavir can prolong the PR interval. Coadministration with other agents that prolong the PR interval, like beta blockers, may result in elevated risk of conduction disturbances and atrioventricular block. (Moderate) Coadministration of cobicistat (a CYP2D6 inhibitor) with beta-blockers metabolized by CYP2D6, such as timolol, may result in elevated beta-blocker serum concentrations. If used concurrently, close clinical monitoring with appropriate beta-blocker dose reductions are advised.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Beta-agonists: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Bretylium and beta-blockers may have an additive effect when used concomitantly; monitor for hypotension or marked bradycardia, which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to brexpiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of bupivacaine and antihypertensive agents. Peripheral vasodilation may occur after use of bupivacaine. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. Blood concentrations of local anesthetics achieved after therapeutic doses are associated with minimal change in peripheral vascular resistance. Higher blood concentrations of local anesthetics may occur due to inadvertent intravascular administration or repeated doses.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of bupivacaine and antihypertensive agents. Peripheral vasodilation may occur after use of bupivacaine. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. Blood concentrations of local anesthetics achieved after therapeutic doses are associated with minimal change in peripheral vascular resistance. Higher blood concentrations of local anesthetics may occur due to inadvertent intravascular administration or repeated doses.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of bupivacaine and antihypertensive agents. Peripheral vasodilation may occur after use of bupivacaine. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. Blood concentrations of local anesthetics achieved after therapeutic doses are associated with minimal change in peripheral vascular resistance. Higher blood concentrations of local anesthetics may occur due to inadvertent intravascular administration or repeated doses. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of bupivacaine and antihypertensive agents. Peripheral vasodilation may occur after use of bupivacaine. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. Blood concentrations of local anesthetics achieved after therapeutic doses are associated with minimal change in peripheral vascular resistance. Higher blood concentrations of local anesthetics may occur due to inadvertent intravascular administration or repeated doses. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
buPROPion: (Minor) Monitor for an increased incidence of timolol-related adverse effects if bupropion and timolol are used concomitantly. Coadministration of bupropion and timolol may result in increased plasma concentrations of timolol. Bupropion and hydroxybupropion, the major active metabolite, are inhibitors of CYP2D6 in vitro. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Minor) Monitor for an increased incidence of timolol-related adverse effects if bupropion and timolol are used concomitantly. Coadministration of bupropion and timolol may result in increased plasma concentrations of timolol. Bupropion and hydroxybupropion, the major active metabolite, are inhibitors of CYP2D6 in vitro. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists. (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists. (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates. (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including beta-blockers. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cardiac glycosides: (Minor) Alpha-agonists as a class, may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. Although ophthalmic brimonidine administration generally does not have clinically significant effects on pulse and blood pressure, it should be used with caution with cardiac glycosides.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ceritinib with timolol if possible due to the risk of additive bradycardia. Both ceritinib and timolol can cause bradycardia. An interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if bradycardia occurs.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Cevimeline: (Major) Cevimeline should be administered with caution to patients taking beta adrenergic antagonists, because of the possibility of conduction disturbances. Cevimeline can potentially alter cardiac conduction and/or heart rate. Patients with significant cardiovascular disease treated with beta-blockers may potentially be unable to compensate for transient changes in hemodynamics or rhythm induced by cevimeline. If use of these drugs together cannot be avoided, close monitoring of blood pressure, heart rate and cardiac function is advised.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Citalopram: (Minor) Citalopram mildly inhibits the hepatic CYP2D6 isoenzyme at therapeutic doses. This can result in increased concentrations of drugs metabolized via the same pathway, including timolol.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Use clevidipine and timolol with caution due to risk for additive negative effects on heart rate, AV conduction, and/or cardiac contractility.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate in patients receiving concomitant clonidine and agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction (e.g., beta-blockers). Severe bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported during combination therapy with clonidine and other sympatholytic agents. Concomitant use of clonidine with beta-blockers can also cause additive hypotension. Beta-blockers should not be substituted for clonidine when modifications are made in a patient's antihypertensive regimen because beta-blocker administration during clonidine withdrawal can augment clonidine withdrawal, which may lead to a hypertensive crisis. If a beta-blocker is to be substituted for clonidine, clonidine should be gradually tapered and the beta-blocker should be gradually increased over several days to avoid the possibility of rebound hypertension; administration of beta-blockers during withdrawal of clonidine can precipitate severe increases in blood pressure as a result of unopposed alpha stimulation.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Coadministration of cobicistat (a CYP2D6 inhibitor) with beta-blockers metabolized by CYP2D6, such as timolol, may result in elevated beta-blocker serum concentrations. If used concurrently, close clinical monitoring with appropriate beta-blocker dose reductions are advised.
Cocaine: (Major) Although beta-blockers are indicated to reduce cocaine-induced tachycardia, myocardial ischemia, and arrhythmias, concomitant use of cocaine and non-selective beta-adrenergic blocking agents, including ophthalmic preparations, can cause unopposed alpha-adrenergic activity, resulting in heart block, excessive bradycardia, or hypertension. In theory, the use of alpha-blocker and beta-blocker combinations or selective beta-blockers in low doses may not cause unopposed alpha stimulation in this situation. Labetalol, a beta-blocker with some alpha-blocking activity, has been used successfully to treat cocaine-induced hypertension. In addition, cocaine can reduce the therapeutic effects of beta-blockers.
Codeine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) Colesevelam may decrease the absorption of timolol. To minimize potential for interactions, consider administering timolol at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after colesevelam.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with agents known to cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, to the extent possible due to the risk of additive bradycardia. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor heart rate and blood pressure regularly. An interruption of crizotinib therapy or dose adjustment may be necessary if bradycardia occurs.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Darunavir: (Moderate) A dose decrease may be needed for timolol when administered with darunavir/ritonavir as serum concentrations for timolol may be increased. Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring is recommended.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) A dose decrease may be needed for timolol when administered with darunavir/ritonavir as serum concentrations for timolol may be increased. Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring is recommended. (Moderate) Coadministration of cobicistat (a CYP2D6 inhibitor) with beta-blockers metabolized by CYP2D6, such as timolol, may result in elevated beta-blocker serum concentrations. If used concurrently, close clinical monitoring with appropriate beta-blocker dose reductions are advised.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) A dose decrease may be needed for timolol when administered with darunavir/ritonavir as serum concentrations for timolol may be increased. Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring is recommended. (Moderate) Coadministration of cobicistat (a CYP2D6 inhibitor) with beta-blockers metabolized by CYP2D6, such as timolol, may result in elevated beta-blocker serum concentrations. If used concurrently, close clinical monitoring with appropriate beta-blocker dose reductions are advised.
Dasiglucagon: (Minor) A temporary increase in both blood pressure and pulse rate may occur following the administration of glucagon. Patients taking beta-blockers might be expected to have a greater increase in both pulse and blood pressure. Glucagon exerts positive inotropic and chronotropic effects and may, therefore, cause tachycardia and hypertension in some patients. The increase in blood pressure and pulse rate may require therapy in some patients with coronary artery disease.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and beta-blockers due to the risk of additive bradycardia and hypotensive effects.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Minor) Monitor for an increased incidence of timolol-related adverse effects if bupropion and timolol are used concomitantly. Coadministration of bupropion and timolol may result in increased plasma concentrations of timolol. Bupropion and hydroxybupropion, the major active metabolite, are inhibitors of CYP2D6 in vitro. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) In general, patients receiving combined therapy with quinidine and beta-blockers should be monitored for potential hypotension, orthostasis, bradycardia and/or AV block, and heart failure. Reduce the beta-blocker dosage if necessary. Quinidine may have additive effects on cardiovascular parameters when used together with beta-blockers, such as timolol. Decreased heart rate (bradycardia) has been reported during combination timolol and quinidine therapy. Additive hypotension is also possible. Additionally, quinidine is a known inhibitor of CYP2D6, and may impair the hepatic clearance of timolol (CYP2D6 substrate). Patients should be monitored for excess beta-blockade. Quinidine has been reported to potentiate timolol-induced bradycardia even after use of ophthalmic timolol.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate during concomitant digoxin and timolol use due to increased risk for bradycardia. Both digoxin and timolol slow atrioventricular conduction (AV) and decrease heart rate; additive effects on AV node conduction can result in bradycardia and advanced or complete heart block. (Minor) Alpha-agonists as a class, may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. Although ophthalmic brimonidine administration generally does not have clinically significant effects on pulse and blood pressure, it should be used with caution with cardiac glycosides.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant diltiazem and timolol use; dosage adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may result in additive effects in prolonging AV conduction and additive antihypertensive effects.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Dipyridamole: (Major) Beta-blockers should generally be withheld before dipyridamole-stress testing. Monitor the heart rate carefully following the dipyridamole injection.
Disopyramide: (Major) Disopyramide and beta-blockers, like timolol, have been used together for the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias; however, this combination should be used with caution due to the potential for additive AV blocking effects. In general, patients receiving combined therapy with disopyramide and beta-blockers should be monitored for potential bradycardia, AV block, and/or hypotension.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Donepezil: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by some cholinesterase inhibitors may produce bradycardia, hypotension, or syncope. The vagotonic effect of these drugs may be increased when given with other medications known to cause bradycardia such as beta-blockers. These interactions are pharmacodynamic in nature rather than pharmacokinetic.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by some cholinesterase inhibitors may produce bradycardia, hypotension, or syncope. The vagotonic effect of these drugs may be increased when given with other medications known to cause bradycardia such as beta-blockers. These interactions are pharmacodynamic in nature rather than pharmacokinetic.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
Dronedarone: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant duloxetine and timolol use. Concomitant use increases the risk for hypotension, including orthostatic hypotension and syncope. Consider reducing the duloxetine dose or discontinuing duloxetine if symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, falls, or syncope occur during treatment.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Coadministration of timolol and eliglustat may result in increased plasma concentrations of timolol. Consider reducing the dosage of oral timolol and titrating to clinical effect. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate; eliglustat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of cobicistat (a CYP2D6 inhibitor) with beta-blockers metabolized by CYP2D6, such as timolol, may result in elevated beta-blocker serum concentrations. If used concurrently, close clinical monitoring with appropriate beta-blocker dose reductions are advised.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of cobicistat (a CYP2D6 inhibitor) with beta-blockers metabolized by CYP2D6, such as timolol, may result in elevated beta-blocker serum concentrations. If used concurrently, close clinical monitoring with appropriate beta-blocker dose reductions are advised.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Epoprostenol can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents, including beta-blockers. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Escitalopram: (Minor) Escitalopram modestly inhibits the hepatic CYP2D6 isoenzyme. This can result in increased concentrations of drugs metabolized via the same pathway, including timolol.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormonal contraceptives should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Ethiodized Oil: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Etomidate: (Major) General anesthetics can potentiate the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers and can produce prolonged hypotension. Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Felodipine: (Moderate) The concomitant use of felodipine and timolol can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Fenoldopam: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Fingolimod: (Major) If possible, do not start fingolimod in a patient who is taking a drug that slows the heart rate or atrioventricular conduction such as beta-blockers. Use of these drugs during fingolimod initiation may be associated with severe bradycardia or heart block. Seek advice from the prescribing physician regarding the possibility to switch to drugs that do not slow the heart rate or atrioventricular conduction before initiating fingolimod. After the first fingolimod dose, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility is advised for patients who cannot stop taking drugs that slow the heart rate or atrioventricular conduction. Experience with fingolimod in patients receiving concurrent therapy with drugs that slow the heart rate or atrioventricular conduction is limited.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Flecainide: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate during concomitant flecainide and timolol use due to risk for additive negative inotropic effects.
Fluorescein: (Moderate) Patients on beta-blockers are at an increased risk of adverse reaction when administered fluorescein injection. It is thought that beta-blockers may worsen anaphylaxis severity by exacerbating bronchospasm or by increasing the release of anaphylaxis mediators; alternately, beta-blocker therapy may make the patient more pharmacodynamically resistance to epinephrine rescue treatment.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bradycardia or heart block if coadministration of timolol with fluoxetine is necessary. Concomitant use may enhance the beta-blocking properties of timolol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Galantamine: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
General anesthetics: (Major) General anesthetics can potentiate the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers and can produce prolonged hypotension. Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Minor) In vitro studies have demonstrated the positive inotropic effects of certain gingerol constituents of ginger; but it is unclear if whole ginger root exhibits these effects clinically in humans. It is theoretically possible that excessive doses of ginger could affect the action of inotropes; however, no clinical data are available.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present. (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Glucagon: (Minor) A temporary increase in both blood pressure and pulse rate may occur following the administration of glucagon. Patients taking beta-blockers might be expected to have a greater increase in both pulse and blood pressure. Glucagon exerts positive inotropic and chronotropic effects and may, therefore, cause tachycardia and hypertension in some patients. The increase in blood pressure and pulse rate may require therapy in some patients with coronary artery disease.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present. (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Guanfacine can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents, including beta-blockers. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol should be used cautiously with timolol due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
House Dust Mite Allergen Extract: (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving beta-blocker therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing beta-blocker therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Beta-blockers may exacerbate hypertriglyceridemia and should be discontinued or changed to alternate therapy, if possible, prior to initiation of icosapent ethyl.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Additive reductions in blood pressure may occur when inhaled iloprost is administered to patients receiving other antihypertensive agents.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Imatinib is a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2D6 and might decrease the hepatic metabolism of timolol. This interaction may be more pronounced in extensive metabolizers. Clinicians should be alert to exaggerated beta-blocker effects if the timolol is given with these drugs.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Insulins: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue timolol for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart timolol until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as timolol, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Iodixanol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Iohexol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Iomeprol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Iopamidol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Iopromide: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Ioversol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when beta-blockers are coadministered with catecholamine-depleting agents, such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors. An additive reduction in sympathetic tone may occur, which may increase the risk for hypotension or marked bradycardia-related vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent administration of brimonidine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). MAOIs can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines. MAOIs may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine resulting in increased systemic side effects like hypotension.
Isoflurane: (Major) General anesthetics can potentiate the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers and can produce prolonged hypotension. Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Isosulfan Blue: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Although concomitant therapy with beta-blockers and isradipine is generally well tolerated and can even be beneficial in some cases, coadministration of these agents can induce excessive bradycardia or hypotension. Isradipine when used in combination with beta-blockers, especially in heart failure patients, can result in additive negative inotropic effects. Finally, angina has been reported when beta-adrenergic blocking agents are withdrawn abruptly when isradipine therapy is initiated. A gradual downward titration of the beta-adrenergic blocking agent dosage during initiation of isradipine therapy can minimize or eliminate this potential interaction. Patients should be monitored carefully, however, for excessive bradycardia, cardiac conduction abnormalities, or hypotension when these drugs are given together. In general, these reactions are more likely to occur with other non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers than with isradipine.
Ivabradine: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if ivabradine is coadministered with other negative chronotropes like beta-blockers. Most patients receiving ivabradine will receive concomitant beta-blocker therapy. Coadministration of drugs that slow heart rate increases the risk for bradycardia.
Ketamine: (Major) General anesthetics can potentiate the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers and can produce prolonged hypotension. Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Use lacosamide with caution in patients taking concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction, such as beta-blockers, because of the risk of AV block, bradycardia, or ventricular tachyarrhythmia. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG prior to lacosamide initiation and after treatment has been titrated to steady-state. In addition, monitor patients receiving lacosamide via the intravenous route closely.
Lanreotide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of bradycardia-inducing drugs (e.g., beta-adrenergic blockers) may have an additive effect on the reduction of heart rate associated with lanreotide. Adjust the beta-blocker dose if necessary.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if lasmiditan is coadministered with beta-blockers as concurrent use may increase the risk for bradycardia. Lasmiditan has been associated with lowering of heart rate. In a drug interaction study, addition of a single 200 mg dose of lasmiditan to a beta-blocker (propranolol) decreased heart rate by an additional 5 beats per minute.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Levothyroxine: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Lidocaine: (Major) Drugs such as beta-blockers that decrease cardiac output reduce hepatic blood flow and thereby decrease lidocaine hepatic clearance. Also, opposing effects on conduction exist between lidocaine and beta-blockers while their effects to decrease automaticity may be additive. Propranolol has been shown to decrease lidocaine clearance and symptoms of lidocaine toxicity have been seen as a result of this interaction. This interaction is possible with other beta-blocking agents since most decrease hepatic blood flow. Monitoring of lidocaine concentrations is recommended during concomitant therapy with beta-blockers.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Drugs such as beta-blockers that decrease cardiac output reduce hepatic blood flow and thereby decrease lidocaine hepatic clearance. Also, opposing effects on conduction exist between lidocaine and beta-blockers while their effects to decrease automaticity may be additive. Propranolol has been shown to decrease lidocaine clearance and symptoms of lidocaine toxicity have been seen as a result of this interaction. This interaction is possible with other beta-blocking agents since most decrease hepatic blood flow. Monitoring of lidocaine concentrations is recommended during concomitant therapy with beta-blockers. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Major) Drugs such as beta-blockers that decrease cardiac output reduce hepatic blood flow and thereby decrease lidocaine hepatic clearance. Also, opposing effects on conduction exist between lidocaine and beta-blockers while their effects to decrease automaticity may be additive. Propranolol has been shown to decrease lidocaine clearance and symptoms of lidocaine toxicity have been seen as a result of this interaction. This interaction is possible with other beta-blocking agents since most decrease hepatic blood flow. Monitoring of lidocaine concentrations is recommended during concomitant therapy with beta-blockers. (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a reversible, non-selective MAO inhibitor. Bradycardia may be worsened when MAO-inhibitors are co-administered to patients receiving beta-blockers. Use linezolid cautiously in patients receiving beta-blockers. (Moderate) Use brimonidine with caution with MAOIs because they can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a reversible, non-selective inhibitor of MAO. MAOIs may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine resulting in increased systemic side effects like hypotension.
Liothyronine: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Lofexidine: (Major) Because both lofexidine and timolol can cause hypotension and bradycardia, concurrent use should be avoided if possible. Patients being given lofexidine in an outpatient setting should be capable of and instructed on self-monitoring for hypotension, orthostasis, bradycardia, and associated symptoms. If clinically significant or symptomatic hypotension and/or bradycardia occur, the next dose of lofexidine should be reduced in amount, delayed, or skipped.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Timolol is significantly metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes. CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as ritonavir, may impair timolol metabolism; the clinical significance of such interactions is unknown.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Mavacamten: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bradycardia or heart block if coadministration of timolol with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may enhance the beta-blocking properties of timolol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Mefloquine: (Major) Concurrent use of mefloquine and beta blockers can result in ECG abnormalities or cardiac arrest.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Peripheral vasodilation may occur after use of mepivacaine. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. Blood concentrations of local anesthetics achieved after therapeutic doses are associated with minimal change in peripheral vascular resistance. Higher blood concentrations of local anesthetics may occur due to inadvertent intravascular administration or repeated doses.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Metaproterenol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Methacholine: (Moderate) Beta-blockers may impair reversal of methacholine-induced bronchoconstriction with an inhaled rapid-acting beta-agonist.
Methadone: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
methIMAzole: (Minor) Hyperthyroidism may cause increased clearance of beta blockers that possess a high extraction ratio. A dose reduction of some beta-blockers may be needed when a hyperthyroid patient treated with methimazole becomes euthyroid.
Methohexital: (Major) General anesthetics can potentiate the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers and can produce prolonged hypotension. (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 such as timolol may be increased when co-administered with mirabegron. Therefore, appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary.
Mixed Grass Pollens Allergen Extract: (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving beta-blocker therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing beta-blocker therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when beta-blockers are coadministered with catecholamine-depleting agents, such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors. An additive reduction in sympathetic tone may occur, which may increase the risk for hypotension or marked bradycardia-related vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent administration of brimonidine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). MAOIs can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines. MAOIs may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine resulting in increased systemic side effects like hypotension.
Morphine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Nefazodone: (Minor) Although relatively infrequent, nefazodone may cause orthostatic hypotension in some patients; this effect may be additive with antihypertensive agents. Blood pressure monitoring and dosage adjustments of either drug may be necessary.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Use nicardipine and timolol with caution due to risk for additive negative effects on heart rate, AV conduction, and/or cardiac contractility.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) In general, concomitant therapy of nifedipine with beta-blockers is well tolerated and can even be beneficial in some cases (i.e., inhibition of nifedipine-induced reflex tachycardia by beta-blockade). Negative inotropic and/or chronotropic effects can be additive when these drugs are used in combination. Finally, angina has been reported when beta-adrenergic blocking agents are withdrawn abruptly and nifedipine therapy is initiated. A gradual downward titration of the beta-adrenergic blocking agent dosage during initiation of nifedipine therapy may minimize or eliminate this potential interaction. Hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur during coadministration of nifedipine with beta-blockers, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. Monitor clinical response during coadministration; adjustment of nifedipine dosage may be needed during concurrent beta-blocker therapy.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Timolol is significantly metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes. CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as ritonavir, may impair timolol metabolism; the clinical significance of such interactions is unknown.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of nisoldipine with timolol can be beneficial (i.e., inhibition of vasodilation-induced reflex tachycardia by beta-blockade); however, the additive negative inotropic and/or chronotropic effects can cause adverse effects, especially in patients with compromised ventricular function or conduction defects (e.g., sinus bradycardia or AV block).
Nitrates: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
Octreotide: (Moderate) Monitor for bradycardia during concomitant use of beta-blockers and octreotide and adjust drug dosage based on response as appropriate. Both medications may cause bradycardia and concomitant use may increase bradycardia risk.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bradycardia or heart block if coadministration of timolol with fluoxetine is necessary. Concomitant use may enhance the beta-blocking properties of timolol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Olodaterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Timolol is metabolized by CYP2D6; oritavancin is a weak CYP2D6 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of timolol may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by beta-blockers. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Ozanimod: (Moderate) Ozanimod may cause bradycardia and AV-conduction delays, which may be enhanced with the concomitant use of beta-blockers. If a calcium channel blocker that slows heart rate/cardiac conduction is also prescribed with ozanimod and a beta-blocker, a cardiologist should be consulted due to the likelyhood of additive effects.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and beta-adrenergic blockers who are susceptible to hypotension.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Monitor for bradycardia and other cardiac conduction abnormalities during the concomitant use of paltusotine and beta-blocker; a beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required based on response. Both medications have been associated with bradycardia and concomitant use may increase risk.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bradycardia or heart block if coadministration of timolol with paroxetine is necessary. Concomitant use may enhance the beta-blocking properties of timolol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Pasireotide: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Peanut (Arachis hypogaea) Allergen Powder: (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving beta-blocker therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing beta-blocker therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to timolol if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when beta-blockers are coadministered with catecholamine-depleting agents, such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors. An additive reduction in sympathetic tone may occur, which may increase the risk for hypotension or marked bradycardia-related vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent administration of brimonidine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). MAOIs can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines. MAOIs may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine resulting in increased systemic side effects like hypotension.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pilocarpine: (Moderate) Systemically administered pilocarpine (e.g., when used for the treatment of xerostomia or xerophthalmia) should be administered with caution in patients taking beta-blockers because of the possibility of cardiac conduction disturbances. The risk of conduction disturbances with beta-blockers and ophthalmically administered pilocarpine is low.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present. (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Ponesimod: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Primidone: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Procainamide: (Major) High or toxic concentrations of procainamide may prolong AV nodal conduction time or induce AV block; these effects could be additive with the pharmacologic actions of beta-blockers, like timolol. In general, patients receiving combined therapy with procainamide and beta-blockers should be monitored for potential bradycardia, AV block, and/or hypotension.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Propafenone: (Major) Pharmacologically, beta-blockers, like timolol, cause AV nodal conduction depression and additive effects are possible when used in combination with propafenone. When used together, AV block can occur. Patients should be monitored closely and the dose should be adjusted according to clinical response.
Propofol: (Major) General anesthetics can potentiate the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers and can produce prolonged hypotension. Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects.
Propylthiouracil, PTU: (Minor) Hyperthyroidism may cause increased clearance of beta blockers that possess a high extraction ratio. A dose reduction of some beta-blockers may be needed when a hyperthyroid patient treated with methimazole becomes euthyroid.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
pyRIDostigmine: (Minor) Concomitant use of beta-blockers with pyridostigmine may exacerbate pyridostigmine-induced bradycardia. Monitor patients closely for adverse reactions during concurrent therapy.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
quiNIDine: (Major) In general, patients receiving combined therapy with quinidine and beta-blockers should be monitored for potential hypotension, orthostasis, bradycardia and/or AV block, and heart failure. Reduce the beta-blocker dosage if necessary. Quinidine may have additive effects on cardiovascular parameters when used together with beta-blockers, such as timolol. Decreased heart rate (bradycardia) has been reported during combination timolol and quinidine therapy. Additive hypotension is also possible. Additionally, quinidine is a known inhibitor of CYP2D6, and may impair the hepatic clearance of timolol (CYP2D6 substrate). Patients should be monitored for excess beta-blockade. Quinidine has been reported to potentiate timolol-induced bradycardia even after use of ophthalmic timolol.
quiNINE: (Minor) Quinine inhibits CYP2D6 and may theoretically increase concentrations of other drugs metabolized by this enzyme, including timolol.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Timolol is metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes. Ranolazine, a CYP2D6 inhibitor, could theoretically impair timolol metabolism. Lower doses of some CYP2D6 substrates than are usually prescribed may be needed during therapy with ranolazine; monitor therapeutic response during coadministration.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with beta-blockers. Limited data suggest that bradycardia is worsened when MAOIs are administered to patients receiving beta-blockers. Although the sinus bradycardia observed was not severe, until more data are available, clinicians should use MAOIs cautiously in patients receiving beta-blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent administration of brimonidine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). MAOIs can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines. MAOIs may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine resulting in increased systemic side effects like hypotension.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists. (Moderate) The risk of significant hypotension and/or bradycardia during therapy with remifentanil may be increased in patients receiving beta-blockers or calcium-channel blockers due to additive hypotensive effects.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of timolol. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving timolol concomitantly.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Timolol is significantly metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes. CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as ritonavir, may impair timolol metabolism; the clinical significance of such interactions is unknown.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by some cholinesterase inhibitors may produce bradycardia, hypotension, or syncope. The vagotonic effect of these drugs may theoretically be increased when given with other medications known to cause bradycardia such as beta-blockers.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if timolol and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for timolol-related adverse effects. Timolol is a substrate of CYP2D6 and rolapitant is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 ; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant is expected to persist beyond 28 days for an unknown duration. Exposure to another CYP2D6 substrate, following a single dose of rolapitant increased about 3-fold on Days 8 and Day 22. The inhibition of CYP2D6 persisted on Day 28 with a 2.3-fold increase in the CYP2D6 substrate concentrations, the last time point measured.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent administration of brimonidine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). MAOIs can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines. MAOIs may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine resulting in increased systemic side effects like hypotension.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Sevoflurane: (Major) General anesthetics can potentiate the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers and can produce prolonged hypotension. Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Short Ragweed Pollen Allergen Extract: (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving beta-blocker therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing beta-blocker therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Monitor for significant bradycardia with coadministration of siponimod and beta-blockers, as additive lowering effects on heart rate may occur; temporary interruption of beta-blocker treatment may be necessary prior to siponimod initiation. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of siponimod.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists. (Moderate) The incidence and degree of bradycardia and hypotension during induction with sufentanil may be increased in patients receiving beta-blockers.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Sympathomimetics: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tamsulosin: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Advise patients to administer the beta-blocker in the morning if tasimelteon is used concomitantly. Nighttime administration of a beta-blocker may reduce the efficacy of tasimelteon by decreasing the production of melatonin via inhibition of beta1 receptors.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Terbinafine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bradycardia or heart block if coadministration of timolol with terbinafine is necessary. Concomitant use may enhance the beta-blocking properties of timolol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Terbutaline: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that slow cardiac conduction such as beta-blockers should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive bradycardia.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Thyroid hormones: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Timothy Grass Pollen Allergen Extract: (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving beta-blocker therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing beta-blocker therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
traMADol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Use verapamil and timolol with caution and close monitoring due to risk for additive negative effects on heart rate, AV conduction, and/or cardiac contractility. There have been reports of excess bradycardia and AV block, including complete heart block, when beta-blockers and verapamil have been used for the treatment of hypertension.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when beta-blockers are coadministered with catecholamine-depleting agents, such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors. An additive reduction in sympathetic tone may occur, which may increase the risk for hypotension or marked bradycardia-related vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent administration of brimonidine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). MAOIs can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines. MAOIs may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine resulting in increased systemic side effects like hypotension.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to decrease the antihypertensive effects of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether tricyclic antidepressants will affect the IOP-lowering efficacy of brimonidine eye solution. There are no data concerning the levels of systemic catecholamines after ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; however, monitor patients carefully who are taking brimonidine and tricyclic antidepressants.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and timolol may result in increased timolol concentrations. Vemurafenib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate. Patients should be monitored for toxicity.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Use verapamil and timolol with caution and close monitoring due to risk for additive negative effects on heart rate, AV conduction, and/or cardiac contractility. There have been reports of excess bradycardia and AV block, including complete heart block, when beta-blockers and verapamil have been used for the treatment of hypertension.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased timolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase timolol exposure. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses adverse reactions with the brimonidine; timolol combination product. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.In 5—15% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, allergic conjunctivitis was reported.In 5—15% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, conjunctival follicles was reported.In 5—15% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, conjunctival hyperemia was reported.In 5—15% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, eyelid and ocular pruritus was reported.In 5—15% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, ocular irritation, including burning and stinging, was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, asthenia was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, blepharitis was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, corneal erosion was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, depression was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, eye discharge was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, ocular pain was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, eyelid edema (blepharedema) was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, eyelid erythema was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, foreign body sensation was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, headache was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, hypertension was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, lacrimation was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, somnolence (drowsiness) was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, superficial punctate keratitis was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, visual impairment was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, xerophthalmia was reported.In 1—5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution, xerostomia was reported.The safe and effective use of brimonidine; timolol in children aged 2 to 16 years has been established and is supported by evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies in adult patients in addition to data from a study of pediatric glaucoma patients (ages 2 to 7 years) using brimonidine 0.2% ophthalmic solution concomitantly with timolol ophthalmic solution. The most commonly observed adverse effects were somnolence (drowsiness) and decreased alertness; the reported frequency of drug discontinuation due to somnolence (drowsiness) was approximately 16%. The incidence of somnolence during brimonidine therapy appears to be substantially higher (50—83% frequency) in children aged = 7 years (25% frequency). The safety and effectiveness of brimonidine and timolol in children < 2 years has not been established, and is not recommended. Brimonidine use in young children and infants has been associated with agitation, apnea, bradycardia, convulsions, cyanosis, depression, dyspnea, emotional instability, hypotension, hypothermia, hypotonia, hypoventilation, irritability, lethargy, somnolence, and stupor. In neonates, brimonidine has been reported to rarely cause apnea, hypotension, hypothermia, and hypotonia.When administered alone, signs and symptoms of systemic allergic reactions (anaphylactoid reactions) including anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, and localized and generalized rash (unspecified) have been reported following administration of ophthalmic timolol.Some adverse reactions have occurred either at low incidence (< 1% of patients) during clinical trials or have been reported during the use of brimonidine alone in clinical practice where these events were reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size; frequency of occurrence cannot be determined precisely. Based on factors such as seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to brimonidine, or a combination of these factors the following adverse reactions are included: abnormal taste, bradycardia, cataracts, cough, dizziness, dry eye, dyspepsia, dyspnea, fatigue, hypercholesterolemia, hypotension, infection (i.e., flu, sinus and respiratory infections), hordeolum, insomnia, iritis, lid disorder, miosis, nasal dryness, nausea, photophobia, tachycardia, vitreous detachment, and vitreous floaters.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    angina, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, edema, heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, palpitations, pulmonary edema, sinus tachycardia, stroke, syncope
    General Information
    Hypertension was reported in 1 to 5% of patients receiving brimonidine; timolol. Hypotension has been reported with the use of brimonidine alone. Cardiovascular adverse events reported with the ocular administration of timolol alone include arrhythmia, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, heart failure, cerebral ischemia, cerebral vascular accident (stroke), claudication, cold hands and feet, edema, heart block, palpitations, pulmonary edema, Raynaud's phenomenon, syncope, and worsening of angina pectoris. Sinus tachycardia has been noted during post-marketing reports. In infants, bradycardia has also been observed in post-marketing reports. Vasodilation and worsening or arterial insufficiency have been reported with oral timolol/beta-blockers and should be considered with ophthalmic administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary edema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, diaphoresis, erythema, fever, laryngospasm, peripheral vasodilation, pruritus, psoriaform rash, psoriasis, rash (unspecified), skin hyperpigmentation, skin irritation, urticaria
    General Information
    Signs and symptoms of systemic allergic reactions including anaphylaxis (anaphylactoid reactions), angioedema, urticaria, and localized and generalized rash (unspecified) have been reported following administration of ophthalmic timolol. Other dermatologic reactions associated with the administration of ocular timolol include alopecia and psoriaform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis. These symptoms may be evident with the use of brimonidine; timolol. Skin reactions, such as erythema, rash, and peripheral vasodilation, have been noted during post-marketing reports. Erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat, laryngospasm with respiratory distress, skin hyperpigmentation, pruritus, skin irritation, and diaphoresis (sweating) have been reported with oral timolol/beta-blockers and should be considered with ophthalmic administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasodilation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psoriaform rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psoriasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin hyperpigmentation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      laryngospasm
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    blepharitis, blurred vision, cataracts, conjunctival hyperemia, conjunctivitis, corneal erosion, diplopia, epiphora, foreign body sensation, iritis, keratitis, keratoconjunctivitis, keratopathy, macular edema, miosis, ocular discharge, ocular hemorrhage, ocular irritation, ocular pain, ocular pruritus, photophobia, ptosis, visual impairment, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Ocular or ophthalmic adverse event reported in 5 to 15% of patients with the use of brimonidine; timolol include allergic conjunctivitis, conjunctival folliculosis, conjunctival hyperemia, ocular pruritus, ocular burning, and stinging. Other adverse events were reported in 1 to 5% of patients and include blepharitis, corneal erosion, epiphora, ocular discharge, xerophthalmia, ocular irritation, ocular pain, eyelid edema, eyelid erythema, eyelid pruritus, foreign body sensation, superficial punctate keratitis, and visual impairment/disturbance. Adverse reactions that have occurred during the use of brimonidine alone include blepharoconjunctivitis, blurred vision, cataracts, conjunctival blanching, conjunctival edema, conjunctival hemorrhage (ocular hemorrhage), conjunctivitis, follicular conjunctivitis, hordeolum, keratitis, lid crusting, lid disorder, ocular allergic reaction, photophobia, superficial punctate keratopathy, tearing, visual field defect, vitreous detachment, vitreous disorder, vitreous floaters, and worsened visual acuity. Adverse effects noted with the use of ocular timolol alone include diplopia, choroidal detachment after filtration surgery, cystoid macular edema, decreased corneal sensitivity, pseudopemphigoid, ptosis, and refractive changes. Eyelid erythema extending to the cheek or forehead, iritis, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, and miosis have been noted in post-marketing reports.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cataracts
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      photophobia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      blepharitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctival hyperemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      corneal erosion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      epiphora
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      foreign body sensation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      iritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      keratitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      keratoconjunctivitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      macular edema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      miosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular discharge
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ocular irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ptosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      keratopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, emotional lability, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, memory impairment, nightmares, paresthesias, vertigo, weakness
    General Information
    Nervous system or psychiatric adverse events reported in 1 to 5% of patients using brimonidine; timolol include asthenia, depression, headache, and somnolence/drowsiness. The most commonly observed adverse effects in pediatric patients were somnolence and decreased alertness; the reported frequency of drug discontinuation due to somnolence was approximately 16%. The incidence of somnolence during brimonidine therapy appears to be substantially higher (50 to 83% frequency) in children aged less than 7 years compared to older children aged 7 years or older (25% frequency). Adverse events reported with the use of brimonidine alone include dizziness, fatigue, and insomnia. Adverse events occurring with the use of ocular timolol alone include increased symptoms of myasthenia gravis, insomnia, nightmares, paresthesias, behavioral changes and psychiatric disturbances including confusion, hallucinations, anxiety, disorientation, nervousness, and memory loss/memory impairment. An acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, decreased performance on neuropsychometrics, diminished concentration, emotional lability, local weakness, reversible depression progressing to catatonia, slightly clouded sensorium, and vertigo have been reported with oral timolol/beta-blockers and should be considered with ophthalmic administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anorexia, colitis, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, hepatomegaly, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Xerostomia was reported in 1 to 5% of patients using brimonidine; timolol. Gastrointestinal adverse events reported with the use of brimonidine alone include abnormal taste, dyspepsia, gastrointestinal disorder, and dysgeusia. Anorexia, diarrhea, and nausea occurred in patients receiving ocular timolol alone. Gastrointestinal pain, hepatomegaly, ischemic colitis, mesenteric arterial thrombosis, and vomiting have been reported with oral timolol/beta-blockers and should be considered with ophthalmic administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatomegaly
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    apnea, bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, nasal congestion, nasal dryness, pharyngitis, respiratory depression, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Respiratory depression has been noted in post-marketing reports with brimonidine; timolol. Additionally, apnea has been observed in post-marketing reports in infants. Respiratory symptoms reported with the use of brimonidine include bronchitis, cough, dyspnea, nasal dryness, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Adverse events reported with the use of ocular timolol alone include bronchospasm (predominantly in patients with pre-existing disease), dyspnea, nasal congestion, and respiratory failure. These symptoms may be evident with the use of brimonidine; timolol. Bronchial obstruction and rales have been reported with oral timolol/beta-blockers and should be considered with ophthalmic administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nasal dryness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      apnea
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    infection, influenza
    General Information
    Flu syndrome (influenza), infection (primarily colds and respiratory infections), upper respiratory symptoms, and sinus infection were reported with the use of brimonidine alone. These symptoms may be evident with the use of brimonidine; timolol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Hypercholesterolemia has been reported with the use of brimonidine. The ocular administration of timolol may mask symptoms of hypoglycemia in diabetes patients. These symptoms may be evident with the use of brimonidine; timolol. Hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia have been reported with oral timolol/beta-blockers and should be considered with ophthalmic administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), coma, hypothermia, lethargy, pallor, weight loss
    General Information
    In infants, coma, hypothermia, lethargy, and pallor have been noted in post-marketing reports with brimonidine; timolol. Chest pain (unspecified) has been reported with the ocular administration of timolol. This may be evident with the use of brimonidine; timolol. Decreased exercise tolerance, extremity pain, and weight loss have been reported with oral timolol/beta-blockers and should be considered with ophthalmic administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      coma
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypothermia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pallor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    lupus-like symptoms
    General Information
    Systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus-like symptoms) have been reported with the use of ocular timolol. These symptoms may be evident with the use of brimonidine; timolol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lupus-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    tinnitus
    General Information
    Tinnitus has been reported with the use of ocular timolol. This may be evident with the use of brimonidine; timolol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, retroperitoneal fibrosis
    General Information
    Urogenital adverse events reported with the use of ocular timolol include libido decrease, Peyronie's disease, impotence (erectile dysfunction), and retroperitoneal fibrosis. These symptoms may be evident with the use of brimonidine; timolol. Urination difficulties have been reported with oral timolol/beta-blockers and should be considered with ophthalmic administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      retroperitoneal fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, hypotonia, musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Hypotonia has been noted in post-marketing reports in infants with brimonidine; timolol. Additionally, musculoskeletal pain was reported with the use brimonidine alone. Arthralgia has been reported with oral timolol/beta-blockers and should be considered with ophthalmic administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypotonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, purpura, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)
    General Information
    Agranulocytosis, nonthrombocytopenic purpura, and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) have been reported with oral timolol/beta-blockers and should be considered with ophthalmic administration of brimonidine; tartrate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Brimonidine; timolol is an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist with a beta-adrenergic receptor inhibitor indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension who require adjunctive or replacement therapy due to inadequately controlled IOP. Brimonidine is a selective alpha-agonist and timolol is a beta-blocker. The hypotensive effect of brimonidine is additive to timolol. However, the IOP reduction observed with twice daily brimonidine; timolol is slightly less than that seen with separately administered timolol (0.5% twice daily) with brimonidine (0.2% three times/day). Brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution was approved by the FDA in October 2007.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Brimonidine and timolol decrease elevated intraocular pressure, whether or not associated with glaucoma. Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of optic nerve damage and glaucomatous visual field loss. The higher the level of intraocular pressure, the greater the likelihood of glaucomatous field loss and optic nerve damage.
Brimonidine: Brimonidine is a potent alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist that shows up to 1,700-fold selectivity for alpha-2 receptors over alpha-1 receptors. When administered via the ophthalmic route, brimonidine decreases intraocular pressure by 2 mechanisms: reducing aqueous humor production (primary short-term mechanism) and stimulating aqueous humor outflow through the uveoscleral pathway (primary long-term mechanism). In addition to lowering intraocular pressure, data from animal studies suggest brimonidine may provide a neuroprotective effect against the progressive neuropathy that is associated with glaucoma. When brimonidine is compared to clonidine and apraclonidine, it is 7 to 12 and 23 to 32 times, respectively, more selective for the alpha-2 receptor.
Timolol: Timolol maleate is a beta-1 and beta-2 adrenergic receptor inhibitor that does not have significant intrinsic sympathomimetic, direct myocardial depressant, or local anesthetic (membrane-stabilizing) activity. The exact mechanism by which beta-blockers lower intraocular pressure has not been clearly defined. However, studies suggest that they may block catecholamine-stimulated increases in cyclic AMP within ciliary processes, with subsequent reduction in aqueous humor formation. Visual acuity, pupil size, and accommodation do not appear to be affected by timolol.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    Ophthalmic Route
Brimonidine: Following ophthalmic administration of brimonidine 0.2%, the Tmax occurred in 1 to 4 hours with a systemic half-life of 3 hours. The time to peak hypotensive effect on intraocular pressure (IOP) is about 2 hours.
Timolol: Some systemic absorption of timolol may occur following ophthalmic administration, but data are limited. In a study of plasma drug concentrations in six subjects receiving timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution twice daily, mean peak plasma concentrations of timolol following morning dosing was 0.46 ng/mL which is enough to cause clinically significant symptoms.
  Text
  Brimonidine; timolol is administered ophthalmically. Both drugs are absorbed systemically following topical application to the eye.
 
Brimonidine: The protein binding of brimonidine has not been studied. Brimonidine is extensively metabolized by the liver. The plasma concentration of brimonidine declined with a systemic half-life of approximately 3 hours. Urinary excretion is the major route of elimination of brimonidine and its metabolites. Approximately 87% of an orally-administered radioactive dose of brimonidine was eliminated within 120 hours, with 74% found in the urine.
Timolol: Once in the systemic circulation, binding of timolol to plasma proteins is minimal (10%). The drug is relatively lipophilic and is distributed into breast milk. Timolol is partially metabolized by the liver. Timolol is extensively metabolized to inactive metabolites. Both the parent drug and metabolites are excreted in the urine. Plasma half-life is about 4 hours, which is largely unchanged by renal insufficiency. Timolol is moderately removed by hemodialysis.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Ophthalmic Administration
    Description
    For ophthalmic use only.
Instruct on proper instillation:
Wash hands before and after use.
Tilt the head back slightly and pull the lower eyelid down with the index finger to form a pouch.
Squeeze the prescribed number of drops into the pouch. Close eyes to spread drops.
To avoid excessive systemic absorption, apply finger pressure on the lacrimal sac for 1 to 2 minutes following application to the eye.
If more than 1 topical ophthalmic drug product is being used, administer them at least 5 minutes apart.
Remove contact lenses prior to administration. Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following administration. Brimonidine; timolol ophthalmic solution contains benzalkonium chloride, a preservative that may be absorbed by soft contact lenses.
To prevent contamination or spread of infection, do not touch the tip of the dropper to the eye, fingertips, or other surface. Do not use the dropper for more than 1 person.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    2 drops/day per affected eye.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    2 drops/day per affected eye.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    2 drops/day per affected eye.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    2 years or older: 2 drops/day per affected eye.
younger than 2 years: Use is contraindicated.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Use is contraindicated.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Use is contraindicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Brimonidine; Timolol has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment; use caution in treating these patients.
  Renal Impairment
  Brimonidine; Timolol has not been studied in patients with renal impairment; use caution in treating these patients.
