=== Ocrelizumab/Hyaluronidase (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5560)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ocrelizumab, hyaluronidase is a combination of a CD20-directed cytolytic monoclonal antibody and an endoglycosidase indicated for the treatment of primary progressive or relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), including clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active...

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 920 mg/dose ocrelizumab and 23,000 units/dose hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 6 months.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cough, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hepatitis b exacerbation, infection, leukoencephalopathy, meningitis, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, hypogammaglobulinemia, immunosuppression, neutropenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Administration of ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase requires an experienced clinician with access to appropriate medical support to manage severe injection reactions. Premedicate with dexamethasone (or an equivalent corticosteroid) and with an antihistamine 30 minutes prior to administration to reduce the...

Brand Names
  - Ocrevus Zunovo

Dosage Forms
  - Ocrevus Zunovo 920mg-23000units/23mL Solution for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General dosing information:
Perform hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection screening in all individuals before ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase initiation. Ocrelizumab is contraindicated in individuals with active HBV infection, confirmed by positive results for surface antigen [HBsAg] and anti-HBV tests. Consult liver disease experts before starting and during treatment with ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase for individuals who are negative for HBsAg and positive for HB core antibody [HBcAb+], or who are carriers of HBV [HBsAg+].
Obtain serum aminotransferases (alanine aminotransferase [ALT] and aspartate aminotransferase [AST]), alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin concentrations before ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase initiation.
Perform testing for quantitative serum immunoglobulins before starting ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase treatment. Consult immunology experts before starting treatment with ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase for individuals with low serum immunoglobulins.
Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase, and administer non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before initiation whenever possible. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment and until B-cell repletion.
Delay ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase administration in individuals with an active infection until the infection has resolved.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        23 mL (containing 920 mg ocrelizumab and 23,000 units hyaluronidase) subcutaneously in the abdomen once every 6 months.
    Heading
    For the treatment of primary progressive or relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, including clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use
    General Information
    Ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase is contraindicated in individuals with a history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use, specifically injection-related reactions, which can be local or systemic. Administration of ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase requires an experienced clinician with access to appropriate medical support to manage severe injection reactions. Premedicate with dexamethasone (or an equivalent corticosteroid) and with an antihistamine 30 minutes prior to administration to reduce the frequency and severity of injection reactions. An antipyretic (e.g., acetaminophen) may also be considered. Carefully monitor the individual for at least 1 hour following the completion of the first injection, and at least 15 minutes following completion of subsequent injections. Inform treated individuals that injection reactions can occur during or within 24 hours of the injection. For life-threatening reactions, immediately and permanently stop treatment and administer supportive care. For less severe reactions, management may include temporarily stopping the infusion and providing symptomatic treatment. Treatment may be completed after symptoms resolve at the discretion of the care team.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Delay ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase initiation or continued treatment in individuals with an active infection until the infection has resolved. Before each dose, determine if the patient has an active infection. An increased risk of infections, including serious infections, has been observed with other B-cell-depleting therapies. Ocrelizumab increases the risk for upper respiratory tract infections, lower respiratory tract infections, skin infections, and herpes-related infections. Intravenous ocrelizumab was not associated with an increased risk of serious infections in MS patients in controlled trials.
    Headline
    hepatitis B infection
    General Information
    Ocrelizumab is contraindicated in individuals with active hepatitis B infection, confirmed by positive results for surface antigen [HBsAg] and anti-hepatitis B virus (HBV) tests. Perform HBV screening in all individuals before initiation of ocrelizumab treatment. Consult liver disease experts before starting and during treatment with ocrelizumab for individuals who are negative for HBsAg and positive for HB core antibody [HBcAb+], or who are carriers of HBV [HBsAg+]. Fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure, and death caused by HBV reactivation have occurred in individuals treated with other anti-CD20 antibodies.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all ive or live-attenuated vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks prior to initiation of ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase and, whenever possible, administer any non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiation of ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase.
    Headline
    hypogammaglobulinemia
    General Information
    Perform testing for quantitative serum immunoglobulins before initiating ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase treatment. Consult immunology experts before initiating treatment with ocrelizumab in individuals with low serum immunoglobulins (hypogammaglobulinemia). As expected with any B-cell depleting therapy, decreased immunoglobulin levels are observed with ocrelizumab treatment. There is an association between decreased levels of immunoglobulin G and increased rates of serious infections. Monitor quantitative serum immunoglobulin concentrations during treatment and after discontinuation of treatment, until B-cell repletion, and in the setting of recurrent serious infections. Consider discontinuation of ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase in patients with serious opportunistic or recurrent serious infections, and if prolonged hypogammaglobulinemia requires treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Ocrelizumab may pose a reproductive risk and may cause fetal harm. Instruct people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while receiving ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase therapy and for 6 months after the last injection.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines before confirming B-cell count recovery, as measured by CD19+ B-cells, in neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero. Depletion of B-cells from ocrelizumab in the exposed neonate or infant may increase the risks from live or live-attenuated vaccines. Non-live vaccines, as indicated, may be administered before recovery from B-cell depletion; however, consider consultation with a qualified specialist to assess whether a protective immune response was mounted.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of ocrelizumab or hyaluronidase in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects of the drug on milk production. Ocrelizumab was excreted in the milk of ocrelizumab-treated monkeys. Human IgG is excreted in human milk, and the potential for absorption of ocrelizumab to lead to B-cell depletion in the infant is unknown. Weigh the benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase and any potential adverse effects of the medication on the breastfed infant or from the underlying maternal condition.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on animal data and its mechanism of action. Advise pregnant people of the potential fetal risk. Ocrelizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody of an immunoglobulin G1 subtype, and immunoglobulins are known to cross the placental barrier. However, transient peripheral B-cell depletion and lymphocytopenia have been reported in infants born to people exposed to other anti-CD20 antibodies during pregnancy. During animal studies, depletion of B-lymphocytes in lymphoid tissues (spleen and lymph nodes) was observed in the fetuses of pregnant monkeys given ocrelizumab at doses of 2 times to 20 times the recommended human dose of 600 mg (on a mg/kg basis). Increased perinatal mortality was observed in the offspring of pregnant monkeys; the exact cause of death is unknown; however, the 2 offspring affected both had bacterial infections. Other adverse effects observed in the neonate monkeys include renal toxicity (glomerulopathy and inflammation), lymphoid follicle formation in the bone marrow, severe decreases in circulating B-lymphocytes, and reduced testicular weight. No evidence of teratogenicity was found when mice received subcutaneous hyaluronidase during organogenesis at doses up to 2,200,000 units/kg, which is more than 5,700 times higher than the human dose. No adverse effects on sexual maturation, learning, memory, or fertility were found in offspring of pregnant mice who received subcutaneous hyaluronidase daily during pre- and post-natal periods at doses up to 1,100,000 units/kg, which is more than 2,800 units/kg higher than the human dose.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on animal data and its mechanism of action. Advise pregnant people of the potential fetal risk. Ocrelizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody of an immunoglobulin G1 subtype, and immunoglobulins are known to cross the placental barrier. However, transient peripheral B-cell depletion and lymphocytopenia have been reported in infants born to people exposed to other anti-CD20 antibodies during pregnancy. During animal studies, depletion of B-lymphocytes in lymphoid tissues (spleen and lymph nodes) was observed in the fetuses of pregnant monkeys given ocrelizumab at doses of 2 times to 20 times the recommended human dose of 600 mg (on a mg/kg basis). Increased perinatal mortality was observed in the offspring of pregnant monkeys; the exact cause of death is unknown; however, the 2 offspring affected both had bacterial infections. Other adverse effects observed in the neonate monkeys include renal toxicity (glomerulopathy and inflammation), lymphoid follicle formation in the bone marrow, severe decreases in circulating B-lymphocytes, and reduced testicular weight. No evidence of teratogenicity was found when mice received subcutaneous hyaluronidase during organogenesis at doses up to 2,200,000 units/kg, which is more than 5,700 times higher than the human dose. No adverse effects on sexual maturation, learning, memory, or fertility were found in offspring of pregnant mice who received subcutaneous hyaluronidase daily during pre- and post-natal periods at doses up to 1,100,000 units/kg, which is more than 2,800 units/kg higher than the human dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of ocrelizumab or hyaluronidase in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects of the drug on milk production. Ocrelizumab was excreted in the milk of ocrelizumab-treated monkeys. Human IgG is excreted in human milk, and the potential for absorption of ocrelizumab to lead to B-cell depletion in the infant is unknown. Weigh the benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase and any potential adverse effects of the medication on the breastfed infant or from the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Alemtuzumab: (Major) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as alemtuzumab. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with alemtuzumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Amide local anesthetics: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Anifrolumab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as ocrelizumab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Anthrax Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Aspirin, ASA: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Belimumab: (Major) Avoid use together. Belimumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as ocrelizumab. Therefore, belimumab use is not recommended in combination with biologic therapies. Potential concerns with use together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, including immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with any of these therapies may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Carbinoxamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorcyclizine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Clemastine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Minor) Corticosteroids (e.g., cortisone, corticotropin, ACTH), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, including immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with any of these therapies may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection. (Minor) Corticosteroids (e.g., cortisone, corticotropin, ACTH), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cyproheptadine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, including immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with any of these therapies may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dimethyl Fumarate: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as dimethyl fumarate. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with dimethyl fumarate may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV : (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Diphtheria Toxoid; Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed, DT, Td: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Diphtheria/Tetanus Toxoids; Pertussis Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Diroximel Fumarate: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as diroximel fumarate. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with diroximel fumarate may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Doxylamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ester local anesthetics: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Glatiramer: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as glatiramer. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with glatiramer may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Hepatitis A Vaccine, Inactivated: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Hepatitis A Vaccine, Inactivated; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Human Papillomavirus 9-Valent Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, including immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with any of these therapies may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
hydrOXYzine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Influenza Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Interferon Beta-1a: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as interferon beta-1a or interferon beta-1b. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with interferon beta may increase the risk of immunosuppression.
Interferon Beta-1b: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as interferon beta-1a or interferon beta-1b. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with interferon beta may increase the risk of immunosuppression.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination. (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Japanese Encephalitis Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Live Vaccines: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Meclizine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Meningococcal Group B (MenB-4C) Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Meningococcal Group B (MenB-FHbp) Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Meningococcal Groups A, B, C, W, and Y Vaccine (5 valent): (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Meningococcal Groups A, C, W, and Y Vaccine (4 valent): (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, including immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with any of these therapies may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
mitoXANTRONE: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with any of these therapies may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Use caution when switching patients from long-acting therapies with immune effects such as mitoxantrone. The median elimination half-life of mitoxantrone is 75 hours (range 23 to 215 hours).
Monomethyl Fumarate: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as dimethyl fumarate. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with dimethyl fumarate may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Avoid the use of these drugs together.
Natalizumab: (Major) Natalizumab should not be used in combination with ocrelizumab because of the potential for increased risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and other serious infections. Ordinarily, multiple sclerosis patients receiving chronic immunomodulatory therapy should not be treated with natalizumab.
Non-Live Vaccines: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ofatumumab: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofatumumab with ocrelizumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Ofatumumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as ocrelizumab. Consider the duration and mechanism of action of drugs with immunosuppressive effects when switching therapies for multiple sclerosis patients.
Ozanimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ozanimod with ocrelizumab may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Ozanimod has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis.
Peginterferon beta-1a: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, such as peginterferon beta-1a. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with peginterferon beta-1a may increase the risk of immunosuppression.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, including immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with any of these therapies may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, including immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with any of these therapies may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rabies Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Respiratory Syncytial Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
riTUXimab: (Major) Avoid the use of ocrelizumab and rituximab together. Both drugs are monoclonal antibodies directed against CD20-expressing B-cells. There are no data on the safety and efficacy of using these drugs at the same time. The concomitant use of rituximab and ocrelizumab may result in additive immunosuppression and an increased risk of infection. Additionally, additive immunosuppression may occur if ocrelizumab is administered before or after rituximab therapy. When switching from drugs with prolonged immune effects, such as rituximab, consider the duration and mode of action of rituximab when initiating ocrelizumab. Monitor patients closely for signs or symptoms of infection.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Major) Avoid the use of ocrelizumab and rituximab together. Both drugs are monoclonal antibodies directed against CD20-expressing B-cells. There are no data on the safety and efficacy of using these drugs at the same time. The concomitant use of rituximab and ocrelizumab may result in additive immunosuppression and an increased risk of infection. Additionally, additive immunosuppression may occur if ocrelizumab is administered before or after rituximab therapy. When switching from drugs with prolonged immune effects, such as rituximab, consider the duration and mode of action of rituximab when initiating ocrelizumab. Monitor patients closely for signs or symptoms of infection.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Salicylates: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Salsalate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Teriflunomide: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with any of these therapies may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Use caution when switching patients from long-acting therapies with immune effects such as teriflunomide. The median half-life of teriflunomide is 18 to 19 days, and teriflunomide may remain in plasma for up to 2 years after discontinuation.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Tick-Borne Encephalitis Vaccine: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, including immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids. Concomitant use of ocrelizumab with any of these therapies may increase the risk of immunosuppression. Monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of infection.
Triprolidine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, bronchospasm, dizziness, dyspnea, erythema, fatigue, fever, flushing, headache, hypotension, infusion-related reactions, injection site reaction, laryngeal edema, nausea, pruritus, rash, sinus tachycardia, throat irritation, urticaria
    General Information
    Ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase is associated with a variety of injection-related reactions, including local injection site reaction and systemic reactions. In an open-label, active-controlled trial of ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase (n = 118) subcutaneously and intravenous ocrelizumab (n = 118), 49% of people treated with ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase experienced an injection reaction following the first dose. A total of 47% and 11% of people treated with ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase experienced at least 1 local or systemic injection reaction, respectively. The majority of reactions occurred within 24 hours after the dose (83%) as opposed to during the injection (19%). Reactions were mild (73%) or moderate (27%) severity, and the median duration of symptoms was 3 days for systemic reactions and 3.5 days for local reactions. All people recovered from the injection reactions, and 29% of reactions required symptomatic treatment. Reported injection reactions included headache, nausea, and injection site erythema, pain, swelling, or pruritus. For subsequent injections (injections 2 to 4), the incidence of local injection reactions ranged from 31% to 43% and systemic injection reactions ranged from 3% to 7%. In MS clinical trials where ocrelizumab was administered intravenously, the incidence of infusion-related reactions in patients [who received methylprednisolone (or an equivalent steroid) and possibly other premedication to reduce the risk of infusion reactions prior to infusion] was 34% to 40%, with the highest incidence with the first infusion. There were no fatal infusion reactions, but 0.3% of intravenous ocrelizumab-treated MS patients experienced infusion reactions that were serious, some requiring hospitalization. Symptoms of infusion reactions can include pruritus, rash, urticaria, erythema, bronchospasm, throat irritation, oropharyngeal pain, dyspnea, pharyngeal or laryngeal edema, flushing, hypotension, pyrexia or fever, fatigue, headache, dizziness, nausea, sinus tachycardia, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions. To reduce the risk of a reaction to ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase, premedicate with dexamethasone (or an equivalent corticosteroid) and with an antihistamine (e.g., desloratadine) 30 minutes prior to administration. An antipyretic (e.g., acetaminophen) may also be considered. Carefully monitor the individual for at least 1 hour following the completion of the first injection, and at least 15 minutes following completion of subsequent injections. Inform treated individuals that injection reactions can occur during or within 24 hours of the injection. For life-threatening reactions, immediately and permanently stop treatment and administer supportive care. For less severe reactions, management may include temporarily stopping the infusion and providing symptomatic treatment. Treatment may be completed after symptoms resolve at the discretion of the care team.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      infusion-related reactions
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      laryngeal edema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      throat irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cough, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hepatitis B exacerbation, infection, leukoencephalopathy, meningitis, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
    General Information
    Infections are common among people treated with ocrelizumab. Serious, including life-threatening or fatal, bacterial, viral, parasitic and fungal infections have been reported, both during and following completion of treatment with anti-CD20 B-cell depleting therapies, including ocrelizumab. During clinical trials of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), 58% of people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab experienced 1 or more infections compared to 52% of people treated with interferon beta-1a. In trials of primary progressive MS, 70% of people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab experienced 1 or more infections compared to 60% of people treated with placebo. Intravenous ocrelizumab was not associated with an increased risk of serious infections in controlled trials. Upper respiratory tract infections were the most common infections encountered during trials, occurring in 40% to 49% of people who received intravenous ocrelizumab; these infections occurred in 33% of people treated with interferon beta-1a and 43% of people treated with placebo. Lower respiratory tract infections were less common, occurring in 8% to 10% of people treated with ocrelizumab, 5% of people treated with interferon beta-1a, and 9% of people treated with placebo. The infections were mostly mild to moderate. During clinical trials of intravenous ocrelizumab in progressive forms of MS, cough was reported in 7% of people receiving ocrelizumab vs. 3% of people receiving placebo. Serious cases of infections caused by herpes simplex virus and varicella zoster virus, including central nervous system infections (encephalitis and meningitis), intraocular infections, and disseminated skin and soft tissue infections, have been reported with ocrelizumab during postmarketing experience. Some infections were life-threatening. Serious herpes infections may occur at any time during treatment. During clinical trials, herpes-related infections were reported more frequently in people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab than in people who received interferon beta-1a, with total incidence rates of 6% vs. 4% in active control trials. Infections included herpes zoster (2.1% ocrelizumab vs. 1% interferon beta-1a), herpes simplex (0.7% vs. 0.1%), oral herpes (3% vs. 2.2%), genital herpes (0.1% vs. 0%), and herpes virus infection (0.1% vs. 0%). These infections were mostly mild to moderate. Herpes-related infections were reported more frequently in people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab compared to placebo (5% vs. 4%) during trials of primary progressive MS. Oral herpes was reported more frequently in people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab compared to placebo (2.7% vs. 0.8%). Skin infections occurred more frequently in people treated with ocrelizumab compared to placebo (14% vs. 11%). Additionally, reports of babesiosis and pyoderma gangrenosum have been reported with postmarketing use. Delay treatment with ocrelizumab until an active infection resolves. Hepatitis B exacerbation or reactivation has been reported in people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab during postmarketing experience. Fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure, and death caused by HBV reactivation have occurred in people treated with other anti-CD20 antibodies. Ocrelizumab is contraindicated for use in people with active hepatitis B infection. Perform HBV screening for all people prior to treatment, and do not administer ocrelizumab to people with active HBV confirmed by positive results for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and hepatitis B surface antibody (anti-HB) tests. If people are negative for HBsAg and positive for HB core antibody (HBcAb+) or are carriers of HBV (HBsAg+), consult liver disease experts before initiation and during treatment. Cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), an opportunistic viral infection of the brain caused by the JC virus (JCV), have been reported in people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab in the postmarketing setting. PML cases occurred in people with no known immune compromising conditions and people who had not previously received other immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory medications that are associated with PML, including natalizumab. PML has been observed in people treated with other anti-CD20 antibodies and other MS therapies, and it has been associated with some risk factors (e.g., concomitant immunosuppression, immunocompromised people). As PML usually leads to death or severe disability, it is of vital importance to withhold ocrelizumab and perform an appropriate diagnostic evaluation at the first sign or symptom of PML. Symptoms of PML are diverse, including progressive weakness on 1 side of the body, clumsiness of limbs, vision disturbances, or confusion or personality alterations from changes in thinking, memory, or orientation. MRI findings of PML may be apparent before clinical signs or symptoms. MRI monitoring for signs that may be consistent with PML may be useful, and any suspicious findings should spark further investigation to allow for an early diagnosis of PML, if present. Discontinue ocrelizumab if PML is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis B exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukoencephalopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      meningitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypogammaglobulinemia, immunosuppression, neutropenia
    General Information
    Immunosuppression, such as neutropenia, may occur with ocrelizumab therapy. During clinical trials of intravenous ocrelizumab, decreased neutrophil counts occurred in 13% of people treated with ocrelizumab compared to 10% of people treated with placebo. Most of the decreased neutrophil counts were between 1,000 to 1,500 cells/microliter. Overall, 1% of people treated with ocrelizumab had neutrophil counts less than 1,000 cells/microliter, and these were not associated with any infection. Ocrelizumab decreased total immunoglobulins with the greatest decline seen in IgM concentrations. Pooled data from studies of intravenous ocrelizumab with up to 7 years of ocrelizumab exposure have shown decreases in IgG concentrations that were associated with increased rates of serious infection. The type, severity, latency, duration, and outcome of serious infections observed during episodes of immunoglobulins below the lower limit of normal (LLN) or hypogammaglobulinemia were consistent with the overall serious infections observed in people treated with ocrelizumab. In active-control studies, the proportions of people treated with ocrelizumab reporting baseline IgG, IgA, and IgM below the LLN were 0.5%, 1.5%, and 0.1%, respectively. Following treatment at 96 weeks, the proportions of people treated with ocrelizumab reporting IgG, IgA, and IgM below the LLN were 1.5%, 2.4%, and 16.5%, respectively. In placebo-controlled studies, the proportions of people treated with ocrelizumab reporting baseline IgG, IgA, and IgM below the LLN were 0%, 0.2%, and 0.2%, respectively. Following treatment at 120 weeks, the proportions of people treated with ocrelizumab reporting IgG, IgA, and IgM below the LLN were 1.1%, 0.5%, and 15.5%, respectively. Perform testing for quantitative serum immunoglobulins before initiating ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase treatment and consult immunology experts before initiating treatment in people with low serum immunoglobulins. Monitor quantitative serum immunoglobulin concentrations during and after treatment discontinuation, until B-cell repletion, especially in the setting of recurrent serious infections. Consider ocrelizumab discontinuation in people with serious opportunistic or recurrent serious infections, and if prolonged hypogammaglobulinemia requires treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins. When initiating ocrelizumab after an immunosuppressive therapy or initiating an immunosuppressive therapy after ocrelizumab treatment, consider the potential for increased immunosuppression. Ocrelizumab has not been studied in combination with other multiple sclerosis therapies.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypogammaglobulinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      immunosuppression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    back pain, peripheral edema
    General Information
    During clinical trials of ocrelizumab for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), back pain occurred in 6% of people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab (n = 825) compared to 5% of people treated with interferon beta-1a (n = 826). Extremity pain was reported in 5% of people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab compared to 4% of people treated with interferon beta-1a. Peripheral edema was observed in 6% of people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab during clinical trials for primary progressive forms of MS (n = 486) compared to 5% of people treated with placebo (n = 239).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression
    General Information
    During clinical trials of intravenous ocrelizumab for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), depression occurred in 8% of people treated with intravenous ocrelizumab (n = 825) compared to 7% treated with interferon beta-1a (n = 826).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    colitis, diarrhea
    General Information
    Serious cases of immune-mediated colitis have been reported in people who received intravenous ocrelizumab in the postmarketing setting. The time from ocrelizumab administration to colitis onset ranged from weeks to years, with some cases requiring systemic corticosteroids, hospitalization, or surgery. Monitor people for signs and symptoms suggestive of immune-mediated colitis, such as persistent diarrhea or other gastrointestinal symptoms. Diarrhea was observed in 6% of people who received intravenous ocrelizumab during clinical trials for primary progressive forms of multiple sclerosis (n = 486). Diarrhea occurred in 5% of people who received placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    antibody formation
    General Information
    During treatment with intravenous ocrelizumab in clinical trials, people were tested at baseline and every 6 months post-treatment for the duration of the trial for anti-drug antibodies. A total of 12 people out of 1,311 (approximately 1%) tested positive for antibody formation. Two people tested positive for neutralizing antibodies. The clinical impact of anti-ocrelizumab antibodies including neutralizing anti-ocrelizumab antibodies could not be determined in the trials. No people tested positive for anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) to ocrelizumab or anti-rHuPH20 (hyaluronidase [human recombinant]) antibodies during a trial conducted to evaluate the comparative immunogenicity of ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase and intravenous ocrelizumab.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      antibody formation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    breast cancer, new primary malignancy
    General Information
    Ocrelizumab may increase the risk of developing a new primary malignancy. Cancers, including breast cancer, were observed during controlled clinical trials of intravenous ocrelizumab. Breast cancer occurred in 6 of 781 females treated with ocrelizumab and none of 668 females treated with interferon beta-1a or placebo. Treated patients should follow standard breast cancer screening guidelines.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      breast cancer
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Clinically significant liver injury, without findings of viral hepatitis, has been reported in the postmarketing setting in people treated with anti-CD20 B-cell depleting therapies approved for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS), including ocrelizumab. Signs of liver injury, including markedly elevated hepatic enzymes with elevated total bilirubin (hyperbilirubinemia), have occurred from weeks to months after administration. Subjects treated with ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase found to have an alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) with serum total bilirubin greater than 2 times the ULN are potentially at risk for severe drug-induced liver injury. Obtain liver function tests prior to initiating treatment with ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase and monitor for signs and symptoms of any hepatic injury during treatment. Measure serum aminotransferases, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin concentrations promptly in people who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including new or worsening fatigue, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine, or jaundice. Discontinue ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase if liver injury is present and an alternative etiology is not identified.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Ocrelizumab, hyaluronidase is a combination of a CD20-directed cytolytic monoclonal antibody and an endoglycosidase indicated for the treatment of primary progressive or relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), including clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease. Ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase is administered subcutaneously, expanding ocrelizumab availability to settings that do not offer infusion support necessary for administration of intravenous ocrelizumab therapy. Hyaluronidase is added to the formulation to increase permeability of subcutaneous tissue. The efficacy of intravenous ocrelizumab for the treatment of primary progressive forms of MS was demonstrated during a placebo-controlled clinical trial, where a 24% risk reduction in the proportion of people with 12-week confirmed disability progression was observed for people treated with ocrelizumab (32.9% active drug vs. 39.3% placebo). The efficacy of intravenous ocrelizumab for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS was demonstrated in 2, randomized, double-blind, active comparator trials, in which ocrelizumab was compared to interferon beta-1a. Across both trials, ocrelizumab significantly reduced annualized relapse rates compared to interferon beta-1a (relative reductions of 46% to 47%) and the proportion of people with 12-week confirmed disability progression (risk reduction of 40%; 9.8% ocrelizumab vs. 15.2% interferon beta-1a). Injection reactions are common; premedication is needed prior to administration to reduce injection reaction symptoms. Ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase was FDA-approved in September 2024.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The exact mechanism by which ocrelizumab exerts its therapeutic effect in multiple sclerosis is unknown. Ocrelizumb likely binds to CD20, a cell surface antigen present on pre-B and mature B lymphocytes. Following binding, antibody-dependent cellular cytolysis and complement-mediated lysis occur. Hyaluronidase is an endoglycosidase that increases the permeability of subcutaneous tissue by depolymerizing hyaluronan. Hyaluronidase increases the dispersion and absorption of ocrelizumab. The effect of hyaluronidase on tissue permeability is not permanent and permeability is restored within 24 to 48 hours.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Subcutaneous Route
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of ocrelizumab fit a 2-compartment model with time-dependent clearance. In clinical studies, the mean maximum concentration (Cmax) was 132 mcg/mL in subjects treated with 920 mg of ocrelizumab. The estimated mean exposure (AUC over the 24 week dosing interval) was 3,730 mcg/mL x day. Tmax was reached after approximately 4 days (range 2 to 13 days). The estimated absolute bioavailability following subcutaneous administration was 81%. No clinically significant pharmacokinetic differences in ocrelizumab exposure were found following subcutaneous administration of 920 mg of ocrelizumab with 23,000 units of hyaluronidase and intravenous administration of 600 mg of ocrelizumab.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    During clinical trials, no significant change in the pharmacokinetics of ocrelizumab was observed in people with mild hepatic impairment. People with moderate or severe hepatic impairment were not studied.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    During clinical trials, no significant change in the pharmacokinetics of ocrelizumab was observed in people with mild renal impairment. People with moderate or severe renal impairment were not studied.
  Text
  Ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase is administered subcutaneously. The population estimate of the central volume of distribution is 2.78 L. Peripheral volume and intercompartment clearance are estimated at 2.68 L and 0.55 L/day, respectively. Ocrelizumab is primarily cleared by catabolism. Clearance is estimated at 0.17 L/day, with an initial time-dependent clearance of 0.05 L/day, which declines with a half-life of 33 weeks. The terminal elimination half-life is 20 days.
 
Treatment with ocrelizumab reduces CD19 B-cell counts in blood by 14 days after infusion. CD19 B-cell counts were used for evaluation because the presence of ocrelizumab interferes with the CD20 assay. During clinical studies of intravenous ocrelizumab, B-cell counts increased to above the lower limit of normal (LLN) or above baseline counts between infusions at least one time in 0.3% to 4.1% of people. The median time for B-cell counts to return to LLN or baseline was 72 weeks (range 27 to 175 weeks) after the last ocrelizumab infusion in 1 clinical study (n = 51) of intravenous ocrelizumab. B-cell counts increased to either baseline or LLN in 90% of people.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Subcutaneous Administration
      Description
      Preparation:
Check vial labels to verify the product to be administered is ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase for subcutaneous injection.
Do not shake the vial.
Vials are preservative-free and are intended for single-use only. Discard any solution in the vial that is not used to provide a dose.
Remove the vial from refrigeration and allow the solution to acclimate to room temperature up to 25 degrees C (77 degrees F).
Withdraw the entire contents of the vial into a syringe using a 21-gauge transfer needle. Do not dilute.
Remove the transfer needle and attach a subcutaneous infusion set (e.g., winged or butterfly) containing a 24 to 26-gauge needle. Use a set with a priming volume not to exceed 0.8 mL for administration. Ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase is compatible with polypropylene (PP), polycarbonate (PC), polyethylene (PE), stainless steel (SS), polyvinylchloride (PVC), and polyurethane (PUR).
Prime the infusion line and stop before fluid reaches the needle. Ensure the syringe contains exactly 23 mL of solution after priming and expelling any excess volume from the syringe.
Administer immediately. Do not store a prepared syringe that has been attached to an already primed infusion set.
Storage:
If a dose is not used immediately, withdraw the entire contents of the vial into the syringe to account for the dose volume (23 mL) and the priming volume. Replace the transfer needle with a syringe closing cap and do not attach a subcutaneous infusion set. Refrigerate the closed syringe at 2 to 8 degrees (36 to 46 degrees F) for up to 72 hours followed by 8 hours at ambient temperatures at or below 25 degrees C (77 degrees F) in diffuse daylight. Allow a refrigerated syringe to acclimate to room temperature prior to administration.
Unopened vials may be stored in the original carton without refrigeration for a cumulative maximum time of 12 hours at room temperature up to 25 degrees C (77 degrees F).
 
Subcutaneous infusion:
Administration can cause systemic and local injection reactions. Carefully monitor the individual for at least 1 hour following the completion of the first injection, and at least 15 minutes following completion of subsequent injections.
Administration must be performed by a care team with appropriate medical support to manage injection reactions.
Premedication: Premedicate with dexamethasone (or an equivalent corticosteroid) and with an antihistamine (e.g., desloratadine) 30 minutes prior to administration to reduce the frequency and severity of injection reactions. An antipyretic (e.g., acetaminophen) may also be considered.
Administer subcutaneously over 10 minutes in the abdomen only. Avoid administration in the navel area (2 inches or 5 cm around the navel). Do not inject into areas of red, bruised, tender, or hard skin. Avoid injection into moles or scars.
Do not administer the remaining priming volume in the infusion set.
Missed doses: Administer the missed dose as soon as possible. Reset the dose schedule to give the next sequential dose 6 months after the missed dose was given. Doses must be separated by at least 5 months.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The ocrelizumab; hyaluronidase solution is clear or slightly opalescent, and colorless to pale brown.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    920 mg/dose ocrelizumab and 23,000 units/dose hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 6 months.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    920 mg/dose ocrelizumab and 23,000 units/dose hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 6 months.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
