=== Levothyroxine/Liothyronine (Porcine) (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 609)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Levothyroxine;

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Greater than 120 mg/day PO desiccated thyroid is rarely needed. Failure to respond to doses of 180 mg/day PO suggests lack of compliance or malabsorption.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): angina, atrial fibrillation, cardiac arrest, heart failure, hypertension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, peripheral edema, sinus tachycardia

In an Overdose: Alopecia may be due to hyperthyroidism from therapeutic overdosage or to hypothyroidism from therapeutic underdosage. alopecia Minor amenorrhea, anorexia, anxiety, appetite stimulation, diaphoresis, diarrhea, dyspnea, elevated hepatic... Thyrotoxicosis is rare, but may result from massive overdosage producing symptoms that resemble thyroid storm. amenorrhea Minor anorexia Minor anxiety Minor diaphoresis Minor diarrhea Minor fever Minor headache...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Although hypersensitivity is not common, desiccated thyroid should not be used in patients with a suspected hypersensitivity to thyroid hormones. In particular, because most desiccated thyroid is produced from porcine thyroid glands, it should not be used in patients with a known porcine protein...

Brand Names
  - ADTHYZA
  - Amerithroid
  - Armour Thyroid
  - Bio-Throid
  - EvexiTHROID
  - Nature Throid NT
  - Nature Thyroid
  - Nature-Throid
  - Niva Thyroid
  - NP Thyroid
  - Thyroid
  - Thyroid 1 1/2 Grain
  - Thyroid 1 Grain
  - Thyroid 1/2 Grain
  - Thyroid 1/4 Grain
  - Thyroid 2 Grain
  - Westhroid
  - Westhroid TH-1
  - Westhroid TH-1/2
  - WP Thyroid

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Thyroid Products Equivalent Oral Dosages (listings are estimates only):
Preparation Equivalent dosage (T4: T3 ratio)
Levothyroxine 0.1 mg (1:0)
Liothyronine 25 mcg (0:1)
Liotrix-1 50—60mcg/12.5—15mcg (4:1)
Thyroid USP 60 mg (1 grain) (2—5:1)
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 30 mg PO once daily for most patients. A lower dosage of 15 mg PO once daily is recommended for those with long-standing myxedema, especially if cardiovascular impairment is suspected. May increase every 2 to 3 weeks in increments of 15 mg as needed until the appropriate response is obtained. Typical maintenance dose: 60 to 120 mg PO once daily. Dosing guidelines are approximate; individualize based on clinical response and laboratory monitoring. Due to variability in manufacture and product source, desiccated thyroid is not considered a drug of choice; levothyroxine is standard of care for thyroid replacement.
        Heading
        Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 30 mg PO once daily for most patients. Use lower initial dose for those with long-standing myxedema, especially if cardiovascular impairment is suspected. Typical maintenance doses for adolescents are greater than 90 mg (range: 1.2 mg/kg to 1.8 mg/kg) PO once daily. Titrate every 2 to 3 weeks as needed until the appropriate response is obtained. Dosing guidelines are approximate; individualize based on clinical response and laboratory monitoring. Due to variability in manufacture and product source, desiccated thyroid is not considered a drug of choice; levothyroxine is standard of care for thyroid replacement.
        Heading
        Children 6 to 12 years
        Dosage Description
        Initially, initiate at a low dosage, such as 30 mg PO once daily for most patients. Use a lower dosage for those with long-standing myxedema, especially if cardiovascular impairment is suspected. Typical maintenance dose: 60 mg to 90 mg (range: 2.4 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg) PO once daily. Titrate every 2 to 3 weeks as needed. Dosing guidelines are approximate; individualize based on clinical response and laboratory monitoring. Due to variability in manufacture and product source, desiccated thyroid is not considered a drug of choice; levothyroxine is standard of care for thyroid replacement.
        Heading
        Children 1 to 5 years
        Dosage Description
        Initially, initiate at a low dosage, such as 30 mg PO once daily for most patients. Use a lower dosage for those with long-standing myxedema, especially if cardiovascular impairment is suspected. Typical maintenance dose: 45 mg to 60 mg (range: 3 mg/kg to 3.6 mg/kg) PO once daily. Titrate every 2 to 3 weeks as needed. Dosing guidelines are approximate; individualize based on clinical response and laboratory monitoring. Due to variability in manufacture and product source, desiccated thyroid is not considered a drug of choice; levothyroxine is standard of care for thyroid replacement.
        Heading
        Infants 6 months and older
        Dosage Description
        Initiate at a low dosage and titrate every 2 to 3 weeks as needed until the appropriate response is obtained. In infants with congenital hypothyroidism, therapy with full doses should be instituted as soon as the diagnosis has been made. Typical maintenance doses: 30 mg to 45 mg (range: 3.6 mg/kg to 4.8 mg/kg) PO once daily. Dosing guidelines are approximate; individualize based on clinical response and laboratory monitoring. Due to variability in manufacture and product source, desiccated thyroid is not considered a drug of choice; levothyroxine is standard of care for thyroid replacement.
        Heading
        Neonates and Infants less than 6 months
        Dosage Description
        Initiate at a low dosage and titrate every 2 to 3 weeks as needed until the appropriate response is obtained. In infants with congenital hypothyroidism, therapy with full doses should be instituted as soon as the diagnosis has been made. Typical maintenance dose: 15 mg to 30 mg (range: 4.8 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg) PO once daily. Dosing guidelines are approximate; individualize based on clinical response and laboratory monitoring. Due to variability in manufacture and product source, desiccated thyroid is not considered a drug of choice; levothyroxine is standard of care for thyroid replacement.
    Heading
    For the treatment of hypothyroidism of any etiology, and for the treatment or prevention of various types of euthyroid (non-toxic) goiter

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Although hypersensitivity is not common, desiccated thyroid should not be used in patients with a suspected hypersensitivity to thyroid hormones. In particular, because most desiccated thyroid is produced from porcine thyroid glands, it should not be used in patients with a known porcine protein hypersensitivity.
 
Desiccated thyroid is contraindicated in patients with untreated thyrotoxicosis of any etiology. Caution should be used when administering thyroid agents to patients with autonomous thyroid tissue to prevent precipitation of thyrotoxicosis.
 
Administration of desiccated thyroid to patients with uncontrolled adrenal insufficiency can cause adrenal crisis and thus administration of thyroid hormones is contraindicated. Adrenal insufficiency should be corrected during concomitant administration of desiccated thyroid since the thyroid hormones increase the body's demand for adrenal hormones. Symptoms of adrenal insufficiency can be unmasked or exacerbated by the administration of thyroid hormones.
 
Other causes of hypothyroidism (e.g., morphologic hypogonadism and nephroses) should be ruled out prior to beginning treatment with desiccated thyroid. Patients with hypothyroidism secondary to hypopituitarism are likely to have suppressed adrenal function as well, which should be corrected prior to initiating thyroid replacement therapy. Symptoms of hypopituitarism can be unmasked or exacerbated by the administration of thyroid hormones.
 
Desiccated thyroid should be used with extreme caution in patients with an acute myocardial infarction (MI) that is not associated with hypothyroidism; small amounts of thyroid hormones may be used only if the MI is complicated or caused by hypothyroidism. Thyroid agents are cardiostimulatory and should be used with great caution in patients with angina pectoris or other preexisting cardiac disease, including uncontrolled hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, or a previous myocardial infarction. Many authorities recommend lower initial dosages and slower titration of thyroid hormones in patients with heart disease. If adverse cardiac symptoms develop or worsen, desiccated thyroid dosages should be reduced or withheld and cautiously restarted at a lower dose. Overtreatment with thyroid hormones may cause cardiac stimulation and lead to increased heart rate, cardiac wall thickening and increased cardiac contractility, which may precipitate angina or cardiac arrhythmias. Concomitant administration of desiccated thyroid with sympathomimetic agents in patients with coronary artery disease may precipitate coronary insufficiency and associated symptoms. Patients with coronary artery disease who are receiving thyroid hormones may be at a higher risk for developing arrhythmias, particularly during surgery.
 
Caution should be used in the elderly since they may be more sensitive to the cardiac effects of desiccated thyroid replacement. Lower initial dosages and slower titration are recommended. Thyroid hormone requirements are typically 25% lower than in younger adults. Individualization of dosage is recommended.
 
Symptoms of diabetes mellitus can be unmasked or exacerbated by the administration of thyroid agents. The use of desiccated thyroid may require alteration in the dosage of antidiabetic regimens. Blood glucose should be monitored closely during concomitant therapy. In addition, withdrawal of thyroid hormones may cause hypoglycemia in susceptible patients.
 
Thyroid hormones are considered FDA pregnancy risk category A drugs. Desiccated thyroid hormones undergo minimal placental transfer and human experience does not indicate adverse fetal effects; do not discontinue needed replacement during pregnancy. Also, hypothyroidism diagnosed during pregnancy should be promptly treated. Measure TSH during each trimester to gauge adequacy of thyroid replacement dosage since during pregnancy thyroid requirements may increase. Immediately after obstetric delivery, dosage should return to the pre-pregnancy dose, monitor a serum TSH or other thyroid function tests 6—8 weeks postpartum to assess for needed adjustments.
 
Desiccated thyroid is generally compatible with breast-feeding; minimal amounts of thyroid hormones are excreted in breast milk. It should be noted that in general, adequate thyroid status is needed to maintain normal lactation.
 
Desiccated thyroid is not indicated for obesity treatment. Normal replacement doses are not effective, and large doses that would be required for reducing weight in euthyroid patients could lead to serious or even life-threatening toxicity. This is particularly dangerous when thyroid hormones are administered along with sympathetic amines that are also often used for weight loss.
 
The use of desiccated thyroid for treatment of female or male infertility is only justified if such infertility is accompanied by hypothyroidism.
 
Long-term use of thyroid hormones has been associated with decreased bone mineral density, particularly in postmenopausal females on greater than replacement doses or in women of any age receiving suppressive doses. Patients should be given the minimum dose necessary for desired clinical and biochemical response to limit risks for osteoporosis.
 
Studies performed to date in children, infants, and neonates have not shown problems that would limit the usefulness of thyroid hormones in these types of patients. Caution is necessary in interpreting results of thyroid function tests in neonates since serum T4 concentrations are transiently elevated and T3 concentrations are transiently low. In addition, the immature pituitary gland is relatively insensitive to the negative feedback effect of thyroid hormones.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Levothyroxine; liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone is a natural product derived from porcine thyroid glands. Levothyroxine; liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone should not be used in people with known porcine protein hypersensitivity. There is no well-documented evidence from the literature, however, of true allergic or idiosyncratic reactions to thyroid hormone.
The active ingredient in porcine thyroid hormone is produced at a facility that also handles bovine (cow) tissues from animals processed for human food consumption. As a result, a potential risk of product contamination with porcine and bovine viral or other adventitious agents cannot be ruled out.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Levothyroxine; liothyronine use is only justified for treatment of female or male infertility if such infertility is accompanied by hypothyroidism.
The therapy of myxedema coma requires simultaneous administration of glucocorticoids with thyroid hormones.
Secondary causes of hypothyroidism (e.g., morphologic hypogonadism and nephroses) should be ruled out prior to beginning treatment with levothyroxine; liothyronine. Individuals with hypothyroidism secondary to hypopituitarism are likely to have suppressed adrenal function as well, which should be corrected prior to initiating thyroid replacement therapy. Symptoms of hypopituitarism can be unmasked or exacerbated by the administration of thyroid hormones.
    Headline
    hyperthyroidism
    General Information
    Levothyroxine; liothyronine is contraindicated in patients with untreated thyrotoxicosis (hyperthyroidism) of any etiology. Caution should be used when administering thyroid agents to patients with autonomous thyroid tissue to prevent precipitation of thyrotoxicosis.
    Headline
    adrenal insufficiency
    General Information
    Levothyroxine; liothyronine is contraindicated in people with uncorrected adrenal insufficiency. Initiation of thyroid hormone therapy prior to initiating glucocorticoid therapy may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis in people with adrenal insufficiency due to an increase in the body's demand for adrenal hormones. Treat individuals with adrenal insufficiency with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiating treatment with levothyroxine; liothyronine.
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease
    General Information
    Guidelines recommend lower initial dosages and slower titration of thyroid hormones in people with cardiovascular disease or coronary artery disease. Over-treatment with levothyroxine; liothyronine may cause an increase in heart rate, cardiac wall thickness, and cardiac contractility and may precipitate angina or arrhythmias, particularly in people with cardiovascular disease. If adverse cardiac symptoms develop or worsen, levothyroxine; liothyronine dosages should be reduced or withheld and cautiously restarted at a lower dose.
    Headline
    obesity treatment
    General Information
    Levothyroxine; liothyronine (porcine) is not indicated for obesity treatment. Normal thyroid hormone replacement doses are not effective, and large doses that would be required for reducing weight in euthyroid patients could lead to serious or even life-threatening toxicity. This is particularly dangerous when thyroid hormones are administered along with sympathetic amines that are also often used for weight loss.
    Headline
    arginine vasopressin disorder, diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Levothyroxine; liothyronine therapy can worsen glycemic control in people with diabetes mellitus, and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. The effects seen are poorly understood and depend upon a variety of factors such as dose and type of thyroid preparations and endocrine status of the individual. Blood glucose should be monitored closely during concomitant therapy, particularly during initiation, dosage adjustments, or discontinuation of therapy. Thyroid hormone therapy in patients with concomitant arginine vasopressin disorder (diabetes insipidus) aggravates the intensity of the symptoms. Appropriate adjustments of the concomitant endocrine therapy for this condition is required.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    According to the Beers Criteria, levothyroxine; liothyronine is not an agent of choice for most geriatric adults; when possible, use of the safer alternative and usual thyroid replacement medication of choice, levothyroxine, is recommended. Caution should be used in geriatric adults since they may be more sensitive to the cardiac effects of thyroid hormone replacement. Lower initial dosages and slower titration are recommended. Thyroid hormone requirements are typically 25% lower than in younger adults; individualize dosage. Atrial arrhythmias can occur, and atrial fibrillation is the most common of the arrhythmias observed with levothyroxine over-treatment in the aged adult.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Clinical experience to date does not indicate any adverse effect on fetuses when thyroid hormones such as levothyroxine; liothyronine are administered during pregnancy. On the basis of current knowledge, thyroid replacement therapy to hypothyroid women should not be discontinued during pregnancy. Thyroid hormones undergo minimal placental transfer. Hypothyroidism that is diagnosed during pregnancy should be promptly treated. Measure TSH during each trimester to gauge adequacy of thyroid replacement dosage, since during pregnancy thyroid requirements may increase. Immediately after obstetric delivery, dosage should return to the pre-pregnancy dose, monitor serum TSH or other thyroid function tests 6 to 8 weeks postpartum to assess for needed adjustments.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    In general, thyroid hormones such as levothyroxine; liothyronine (porcine) are compatible with breast-feeding. Changes in thyroid status in the postpartum period may require careful monitoring and maternal dosage adjustment. In general, adequate thyroid status is needed to maintain normal lactation, and there is no reason maternal replacement should be halted due to lactation alone. Minimal amounts of thyroid hormones are excreted in breast milk. However, thyroid hormones do not have a known tumorigenic potential and are not associated with reports of serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants.  Levothyroxine (T4) is often the preferential drug to treat hypothyroidism in most patients and is considered compatible with breast-feeding.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Clinical experience to date does not indicate any adverse effect on fetuses when thyroid hormones such as levothyroxine; liothyronine are administered during pregnancy. On the basis of current knowledge, thyroid replacement therapy to hypothyroid women should not be discontinued during pregnancy. Thyroid hormones undergo minimal placental transfer. Hypothyroidism that is diagnosed during pregnancy should be promptly treated. Measure TSH during each trimester to gauge adequacy of thyroid replacement dosage, since during pregnancy thyroid requirements may increase. Immediately after obstetric delivery, dosage should return to the pre-pregnancy dose, monitor serum TSH or other thyroid function tests 6 to 8 weeks postpartum to assess for needed adjustments.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    In general, thyroid hormones such as levothyroxine; liothyronine (porcine) are compatible with breast-feeding. Changes in thyroid status in the postpartum period may require careful monitoring and maternal dosage adjustment. In general, adequate thyroid status is needed to maintain normal lactation, and there is no reason maternal replacement should be halted due to lactation alone. Minimal amounts of thyroid hormones are excreted in breast milk. However, thyroid hormones do not have a known tumorigenic potential and are not associated with reports of serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants.  Levothyroxine (T4) is often the preferential drug to treat hypothyroidism in most patients and is considered compatible with breast-feeding.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, dosages are changed, or if thyroid hormones are discontinued.
Acebutolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Alendronate: (Moderate) Separating times of administration of alendronate from levothyroxine and other medications will maximize alendronate absorption and clinical benefit. For example, administering the levothyroxine dose at bedtime can avoid this interaction with alendronate. The bioavailability of alendronate was slightly decreased when alendronate and levothyroxine were co-administered to healthy subjects The mean AUC and Cmax of alendronate decreased by 7% and 9%, respectively. Alendronate should always be administered upon arising for the day and at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other medication of the day. To minimize interactions, levothyroxine is also best taken on an empty stomach with a glass of water.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Moderate) Separating times of administration of alendronate from levothyroxine and other medications will maximize alendronate absorption and clinical benefit. For example, administering the levothyroxine dose at bedtime can avoid this interaction with alendronate. The bioavailability of alendronate was slightly decreased when alendronate and levothyroxine were co-administered to healthy subjects The mean AUC and Cmax of alendronate decreased by 7% and 9%, respectively. Alendronate should always be administered upon arising for the day and at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other medication of the day. To minimize interactions, levothyroxine is also best taken on an empty stomach with a glass of water.
Alogliptin: (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin. (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, dosages are changed, or if thyroid hormones are discontinued. (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, dosages are changed, or if thyroid hormones are discontinued.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) To minimize an interaction, administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids or other drugs containing aluminum hydroxide. Aluminum hydroxide, often found in antacids, interferes with the intestinal absorption of thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) To minimize an interaction, administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids or other drugs containing aluminum hydroxide. Aluminum hydroxide, often found in antacids, interferes with the intestinal absorption of thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) To minimize an interaction, administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids or other drugs containing aluminum hydroxide. Aluminum hydroxide, often found in antacids, interferes with the intestinal absorption of thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after a dose of simethicone. Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of levothyroxine by binding and delaying or preventing oral absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Simethicone has been reported to chelate oral levothyroxine within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. (Moderate) To minimize an interaction, administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids or other drugs containing aluminum hydroxide. Aluminum hydroxide, often found in antacids, interferes with the intestinal absorption of thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) To minimize an interaction, administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids or other drugs containing aluminum hydroxide. Aluminum hydroxide, often found in antacids, interferes with the intestinal absorption of thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Amiodarone has a complex effect on the metabolism of thyroid hormones and can alter thyroid function tests in many patients. Since approximately 37% of amiodarone (by weight) is iodine, maintenance doses of 200 to 600 mg of amiodarone/day result in ingestion of 75 to 225 mg/day of organic iodide, resulting in much higher total iodine stores in the body. In addition, amiodarone decreases T4 5'-deiodinase activity, which decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, leading to decreased serum T3. Serum T4 levels are usually normal but may be slightly increased. TSH concentrations usually increase during amiodarone therapy, but after 3 months of continuous administration, TSH concentrations often return to normal. However, amiodarone can cause hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, including life-threatening thyrotoxicosis. Therefore, patients receiving levothyroxine and amiodarone should be monitored for changes in thyroid function; because of the slow elimination of amiodarone and its metabolites, abnormal thyroid function tests may persists for weeks or months after amiodarone drug discontinuation.
Amitriptyline: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Amobarbital: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Amoxapine: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of amoxapine. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, clinicians should be aware of the remote possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi: (Moderate) Some hypothyroid patients receiving asparaginase may require reduced doses of thyroid hormone. Other patients may remain euthyroid during combined treatment. Monitor TSH levels and monitor for symptoms of hyperthyroidism; a free-T4 concentration may be useful to assess euthyroidism. Asparaginase may decrease the serum TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin) concentration. Decreased amounts of TBG may result in an increased clinical response to thyroid hormones.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Atenolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Barbiturates: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Beta-agonists: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Beta-blockers: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Betaxolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Bisoprolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Calcium Acetate: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Calcium Chloride: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Calcium Gluconate: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Calcium: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Canagliflozin: (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin. (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Use carbamazepine and thyroid hormones together with caution. Carbamazepine may inhibit the binding of thyroid hormones to carrier proteins, resulting in a transient increase in free thyroid hormones followed by an overall decrease in total thyroid hormone concentrations. Carbamazepine reduces serum protein binding of levothyroxine, and total and free-T4 may be reduced by 20% to 40%, but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid. Monitor thyroid hormone parameters.
Carteolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Carvedilol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Administer oral levothyroxine or other oral thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before a dose of cholestyramine. Cholestyramine and other bile acid sequestrants have been shown to decrease the oral absorption of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid function periodically to ensure proper clinical management.
Chromium: (Moderate) Advise patients to separate chromium supplement ingestion from taking their oral thyroid hormone. For example, taking oral thyroid hormones 1 hours before or 3 hours after chromium picolinate ingestion should minimize an interaction. Chromium could potentially decrease the oral absorption of thyroid hormones. In one study of normal volunteers, the subjects (n = 7) ingested levothyroxine sodium, either taken separately or co-administered with chromium picolinate. Serum thyroxine was measured at intervals over a 6-hour period following drug ingestion. Chromium picolinate significantly decreased the serum thyroxine concentrations. (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
clomiPRAMINE: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Cocaine: (Moderate) The concomitant use of sympathomimetics and thyroid hormones can enhance the effects on the cardiovascular system. Patients with coronary artery disease have an increased risk of coronary insufficiency from either agent. Concomitant use of these agents may increase this risk further.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) Administer oral levothyroxine or other oral thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before a dose of colesevelam. Colesevelam and other bile acid sequestrants have been shown to decrease the oral absorption of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid function periodically to ensure proper clinical management.
Colestipol: (Moderate) Administer oral levothyroxine or other oral thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before a dose of colestipol. Colestipol and other bile acid sequestrants have been shown to decrease the oral absorption of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid function periodically to ensure proper clinical management.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Serum trough cyclosporine concentrations appear to be reduced by concurrent oral cyclosporine and levothyroxine use. Claosely monitor cyclosporine concentrations with concomitant levothyroxine therapy. Among 10 patients who took cyclosporine (Neoral) capsules twice daily for at least a year and oral levothyroxine 100 mcg daily for at least 3 months, the trough serum cyclosporine concentration was significantly lower as compared with values from 30 patients who only took cyclosporine. The mechanism of the interaction may be decreased oral cyclosporine absorption. Cyclosporine is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and levothyroxine appears to be an inducer of intestinal P-gp.
Dapagliflozin: (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin. (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed. (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Desipramine: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Digoxin: (Minor) Thyroid disease is known to alter the response to digoxin. Digoxin toxicity is more likely to occur in patients with hypothyroidism, while the response to digoxin is diminished in patients with hyperthyroidism. These reactions should be kept in mind when therapy with thyroid hormones is begun or interrupted. When hypothyroid patients are administered thyroid hormone, the dose requirement of digoxin may be increased.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Doxepin: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Dulaglutide: (Minor) When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Empagliflozin: (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents, such as linagliptin, if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin. (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents, such as linagliptin, if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin. (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Enteral Feedings: (Contraindicated) Certain foods, beverages, and enteral feedings can inhibit the absorption of thyroid hormones. To minimize the risk of an interaction, thyroid hormones should be administered on an empty stomach with a glass of water at least 30 to 60 minutes prior to food or enteral feedings. Foods that may decrease thyroid hormone absorption include soybean flour and soy-based infant formulas or enteral feedings, as well as high fiber diets, cottonseed meal, and walnuts. In addition to decreasing the oral absorption of thyroid hormones, limited data indicate that soy containing foods and supplements may also influence thyroid physiology. Concentrated soy isoflavones (e.g., genistein and daidzein) may interfere with thyroid peroxidase catalyzed iodination of thyroglobulin, resulting in a decreased production of thyroid hormones and an increased secretion of TSH endogenously. More studies are required to assess the exact mechanism of this interaction. Caution should be used in administering soy isoflavone supplements concurrently with thyroid hormones. Limited data show that coffee has the potential to impair T4 intestinal absorption. In one report, T4 intestinal absorption was evaluated after the administration of 200 mcg L-thyroxine (L-T4) swallowed with coffee/espresso, water, or water followed 60 minutes later by coffee/espresso. Researchers found that administration with coffee/espresso significantly lowered average serum T4 (p<0.001) and peak serum T4 concentrations (p<0.05) when compared to L-T4 taken with water alone. Coffee/espresso taken 60 minutes after L-T4 ingestion had no significant effect on T4 intestinal absorption. It is prudent to remind patients that thyroid hormones should be separated from food and beverages (other than water), including coffee, by at least 30 to 60 minutes.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed.
Esmolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Estrogens: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Exenatide: (Minor) When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Food: (Contraindicated) Certain foods, beverages, and enteral feedings can inhibit the absorption of thyroid hormones. To minimize the risk of an interaction, thyroid hormones should be administered on an empty stomach with a glass of water at least 30 to 60 minutes prior to food or enteral feedings. Foods that may decrease thyroid hormone absorption include soybean flour and soy-based infant formulas or enteral feedings, as well as high fiber diets, cottonseed meal, and walnuts. In addition to decreasing the oral absorption of thyroid hormones, limited data indicate that soy containing foods and supplements may also influence thyroid physiology. Concentrated soy isoflavones (e.g., genistein and daidzein) may interfere with thyroid peroxidase catalyzed iodination of thyroglobulin, resulting in a decreased production of thyroid hormones and an increased secretion of TSH endogenously. More studies are required to assess the exact mechanism of this interaction. Caution should be used in administering soy isoflavone supplements concurrently with thyroid hormones. Limited data show that coffee has the potential to impair T4 intestinal absorption. In one report, T4 intestinal absorption was evaluated after the administration of 200 mcg L-thyroxine (L-T4) swallowed with coffee/espresso, water, or water followed 60 minutes later by coffee/espresso. Researchers found that administration with coffee/espresso significantly lowered average serum T4 (p<0.001) and peak serum T4 concentrations (p<0.05) when compared to L-T4 taken with water alone. Coffee/espresso taken 60 minutes after L-T4 ingestion had no significant effect on T4 intestinal absorption. It is prudent to remind patients that thyroid hormones should be separated from food and beverages (other than water), including coffee, by at least 30 to 60 minutes.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of thyroid hormones, leading to reduced efficacy of the thyroid hormone.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Use high doses (more than 80 mg) of furosemide and thyroid hormones together with caution. High doses of furosemide may inhibit the binding of thyroid hormones to carrier proteins, resulting in a transient increase in free thyroid hormones followed by an overall decrease in total thyroid hormone concentrations.
Glimepiride: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed.
glipiZIDE: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed. (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin.
glyBURIDE: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed. (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Hydantoins: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of thyroid hormones, leading to reduced efficacy of the thyroid hormone.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations carefully when tyrosine kinase inhibitors like imatinib are used in patients taking thyroid hormones. Cases of clinical hypothyroidism have occurred in patients taking imatinib.
Imipramine: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Insulin Aspart: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Insulin Degludec: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. (Minor) When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis.
Insulin Detemir: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Insulin Glargine: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. (Minor) When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis.
Insulin Glulisine: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Insulin Icodec: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Insulin Lispro: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Insulins: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Iodine; Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Antithyroid agents should generally not be administered with the thyroid hormones due to their opposing effects. However, in selected cases some clinicians coadminister T4 (e.g., levothyroxine) to circumvent drug-induced hypothyroidism when large suppressive doses of antithyroid agents are administered for long periods of time. However, clinical and biochemical euthyroid status may usually be maintained with careful titration of the antithyroid agent dosage alone.
Iodoquinol: (Moderate) Iodoquinol should be used with caution in patients treated with thyroid hormones. Iodine-containing compounds like iodoquinol may result in overt thyroid disease. Increased uptake of iodine by the thyroid may lead to changes in thyroid status, especially in patients with pre-existing thyroid disease. Iodoquinol has been shown to interfere with thyroid function tests for up to 6 months.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex.
Iron Sucrose, Sucroferric Oxyhydroxide: (Moderate) Administer oral thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after oral iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral iron supplements.
Iron: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Ketamine should be administered cautiously to patients receiving levothyroxine because concomitant use can cause marked hypertension and tachycardia.
Labetalol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Landiolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Lanthanum Carbonate: (Moderate) Administer oral thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after the administration of lanthanum carbonate. Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of levothyroxine by binding and delaying or preventing oral absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations should be carefully monitored. The bioavailability of levothyroxine was decreased by approximately 40% when administered with lanthanum carbonate.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Levobunolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Linagliptin: (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents, such as linagliptin, if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin. (Minor) Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use oral antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents, such as linagliptin, if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued.
Liraglutide: (Minor) When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lixisenatide: (Minor) When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis.
Lonapegsomatropin: (Minor) Excessive use of thyroid hormones with growth hormone (somatropin, rh-GH) may accelerate epiphyseal closure. However, untreated hypothyroidism may interfere with growth response to somatropin. Patients receiving concomitant therapy should be monitored closely to ensure appropriate therapeutic response to somatropin.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids, dietary supplements, or other drugs containing magnesium. Magnesium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of levothyroxine with products containing oral cations, such as antacids or dietary supplements.
Magnesium: (Moderate) Administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids, dietary supplements, or other drugs containing magnesium. Magnesium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of levothyroxine with products containing oral cations, such as antacids or dietary supplements.
Meglitinides: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed.
Metaproterenol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
metFORMIN: (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed. (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed. (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Methohexital: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Metoprolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Miglitol: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, dosages are changed, or if thyroid hormones are discontinued.
Nadolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Nateglinide: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed.
Nebivolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Nortriptyline: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Olodaterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Orlistat: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after a dose of orlistat. Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of thyroid hormones by binding and delaying or preventing oral absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Monitor TSH while orlistat is used concurrently. Hypothyroidism has been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine postmarketing.
Pantoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Patiromer: (Moderate) Separate the administration of patiromer and oral levothyroxine by at least 3 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous oral coadministration may reduce gastrointestinal absorption of levothyroxine and reduce its efficacy. Patiromer has been observed to bind some oral medications when given at the same time and separating administration by at least 3 hours has effectively mitigated this risk.
PENTobarbital: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
PHENobarbital: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Phenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of thyroid hormones, leading to reduced efficacy of the thyroid hormone.
Pindolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Pioglitazone: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, dosages are changed, or if thyroid hormones are discontinued.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed. (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, dosages are changed, or if thyroid hormones are discontinued.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, dosages are changed, or if thyroid hormones are discontinued. (Minor) Thyroid hormone use may result in increased blood sugar and a loss of glycemic control in some patients. Interactions may or may not be clinically significant at usual replacement doses. Monitor blood sugars carefully when thyroid therapy is added, changed, or discontinued in patients receiving metformin.
Polycarbophil: (Moderate) Administer thyroid hormones at least 2 hours before or after the ingestion of calcium polycarbophil. Thyroid hormones are best taken on an empty stomach, and, administration should be separated from medications that might interfere with absorption. Monitor the patient's thyroid function and clinical status if the patient is on calcium polycarbophil treatment. Dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption of thyroid hormones from the gastrointestinal tract. Each 625 mg of calcium polycarbophil contains a substantial amount of calcium (approximately 125 mg). Calcium salts can chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, also leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from calcium supplements and thyroid hormone interactions. In a study of 8 volunteers, the absorption of levothyroxine decreased from 89% when administered alone to only 86% when administered concomitantly with 1,000 mg of calcium polycarbophil.
Polysaccharide-Iron Complex: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex.
Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Antithyroid agents should generally not be administered with the thyroid hormones due to their opposing effects. However, in selected cases some clinicians coadminister T4 (e.g., levothyroxine) to circumvent drug-induced hypothyroidism when large suppressive doses of antithyroid agents are administered for long periods of time. However, clinical and biochemical euthyroid status may usually be maintained with careful titration of the antithyroid agent dosage alone.
Pramlintide: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, dosages are changed, or if thyroid hormones are discontinued.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Primidone: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Propranolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Propylthiouracil, PTU: (Major) Antithyroid agents should generally not be administered with the thyroid hormones due to their opposing effects. However, in selected cases some clinicians co-administer T4 (e.g., levothyroxine) to circumvent drug-induced hypothyroidism when large suppressive doses of antithyroid agents are administered for long periods of time. However, clinical and biochemical euthyroid status may usually be maintained with careful titration of the antithyroid agent dosage alone.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Protriptyline: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Raloxifene: (Moderate) Patients prescribed raloxifene while taking thyroid hormones should be advised to take the drugs at separate times (e.g., 12 hours apart) until more data are available. Raloxifene may delay and reduce the oral absorption of levothyroxine (T4). In a case report, a patient with chronic but treated hypothyroidism was taking a stable dose of levothyroxine. The patient required increasing doses of levothyroxine when raloxifene was coadministered; the TSH level remained elevated and serum T4 remained decreased despite an increase in oral levothyroxine dosage. An absorption interaction was suspected and the patient rechallenged on two occasions; a decrease in serum T4 was observed whenever raloxifene and levothyroxine were administered concurrently. The patient's levothyroxine dosage requirements returned to baseline and the TSH value normalized when levothyroxine and raloxifene were administered 12 hours apart rather than simultaneously. The mechanism for the observed interaction is unknown. In theory, raloxifene might cause oral malabsorption of any thyroid hormone containing T4 (e.g., desiccated thyroid, levothyroxine, liotrix) if administered at the same time.
Regular Insulin: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Repaglinide: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Rifampin increases thyroid hormone metabolism by inducing uridine 5-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) and leads to lower T4 serum levels. Clinicians should be alert for a decreased response to thyroid hormones if rifampin is used during thyroid hormone therapy.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
sAXagliptin: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed.
Secobarbital: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase circulating concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Increased amounts of thyroxine-binding globulin may result in a reduced clinical response to thyroid hormones. Some hypothyroid patients on estrogen may require larger doses of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level and follow the recommendation for thyroid hormone replacement.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Consider additional thyroid function monitoring during concomitant use of oral thyroid hormones and oral semaglutide. Advise patients to take oral semaglutide 30 minutes before other oral medications. Concomitant use has been observed to increase levothyroxine exposure by 33% which may increase the risk for symptoms of hyperthyroidism or require a dosage adjustment. Semaglutide delays gastric emptying which may affect the absorption of other orally administered medications. This absorption interaction is not expected with subcutaneous semaglutide or intravenous levothyroxine. Additionally, levothyroxine may worsen glycemic control in patients with diabetes.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Sevelamer: (Moderate) Thyroid hormone oral administration should be separated from sevelamer administration by 4 hours. Sevelamer appears to decrease the oral absorption of thyroid hormones. In one study of normal volunteers, the subjects (n = 7) ingested orally levothyroxine sodium, either taken separately or coadministered with sevelamer. Serum thyroxine was measured at intervals over a 6-hour period following drug ingestion. Sevelamer significantly decreased the the serum thyroxine concentration. The authors concluded that patients should be advised to separate the time of ingestion of sevelamer from their thyroid hormone preparation.
Simethicone: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after a dose of simethicone. Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of levothyroxine by binding and delaying or preventing oral absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Simethicone has been reported to chelate oral levothyroxine within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption.
SITagliptin: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Major) Hold levothyroxine for 4 weeks prior to sodium iodide I-131 administration. Use of levothyroxine may alter thyroid uptake of sodium iodide I-131 and decrease its efficacy. (Major) Hold liothyronine for 2 weeks prior to sodium iodide I-131 administration. Use of liothyronine may alter thyroid uptake of sodium iodide I-131 and decrease its efficacy.
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate: (Moderate) Administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours apart from cation exchange resins, like sodium polystyrene sulfonate. Cation exchange resins can bind thyroxine or levothyroxine in the GI tract and inhibit oral absorption, potentially leading to hypothyroidism.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids, dietary supplements, or other drugs containing magnesium. Magnesium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of levothyroxine with products containing oral cations, such as antacids or dietary supplements.
Somatropin, rh-GH: (Minor) Excessive use of thyroid hormones with growth hormone (somatropin, rh-GH) may accelerate epiphyseal closure. However, untreated hypothyroidism may interfere with growth response to somatropin. Patients receiving concomitant therapy should be monitored closely to ensure appropriate therapeutic response to somatropin.
Sotalol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Soy Isoflavones: (Moderate) Concentrated soy isoflavones (e.g., genistein and daidzein) may interfere with thyroid peroxidase catalyzed iodination of thyroglobulin, resulting in a decreased production of thyroid hormones and an increased secretion of TSH endogenously. Caution should be used in administering soy isoflavone supplements concurrently with thyroid hormones. More studies are required to assess the exact mechanism of this interaction.
Sucralfate: (Moderate) Administer levothyroxine at least 4 hours apart from a dose of sucralfate. Patients treated concomitantly with these drugs should be monitored for changes in thyroid function. Consider an alternative to sucralfate, if appropriate. Concurrent use of sucralfate may reduce the efficacy of levothyroxine and other thyroid hormones by binding and delaying or preventing oral absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism.
Sulfonylureas: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, discontinued or doses changed.
Sympathomimetics: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Teduglutide: (Moderate) Monitor thyroid status and for symptoms of increased thyroid effect. Based upon the pharmacodynamic effect of teduglutide, there is a potential for increased absorption of concomitant oral medications, which should be considered if these drugs require titration or have a narrow therapeutic index, such as orally administered thyroid hormones.
Terbutaline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Minor) Correction of hypothyroidism to the euthyroid state may precipitate certain drug interactions. For example, hypothyroidism causes decreased clearance of theophylline, which returns to normal in the euthyroid state. Aminophylline is converted to theophylline in the body. Aminophylline dosage adjustments may be needed with thyroid hormone replacement. (Minor) Correction of hypothyroidism to the euthyroid state may precipitate certain drug interactions. For example, hypothyroidism causes decreased clearance of theophylline, which returns to normal in the euthyroid state. Theophylline dosage adjustments may be needed with thyroid hormone replacement.
Thiazolidinediones: (Minor) Addition of thyroid hormones to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased dosage requirements of the antidiabetic agents. Blood sugars should be carefully monitored when thyroid therapy is added, dosages are changed, or if thyroid hormones are discontinued.
Timolol: (Minor) Because thyroid hormones cause cardiac stimulation including increased heart rate and increased contractility, the effects of beta-blockers may be reduced by thyroid hormones. The reduction of effects may be especially evident when a patient goes from a hypothyroid to a euthyroid state or when excessive amounts of thyroid hormone is given to the patient.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Tirofiban: (Minor) Data from the PRISM study, indicate that patients who received levothyroxine or omeprazole concomitantly with tirofiban had a higher rate of tirofiban clearance than patients who did not receive levothyroxine or omeprazole. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Tirzepatide: (Minor) When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced. Close monitoring of blood glucose is necessary for individuals who use antidiabetic agents whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Trimipramine: (Minor) Thyroid hormones may increase receptor sensitivity and enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Although this drug combination appears to be safe, be aware of the possibility of exaggerated cardiovascular side effects such as arrhythmias and CNS stimulation.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Vonoprazan: (Moderate) Monitor for altered response to thyroid hormones if coadministered with vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of oral thyroid hormones reducing their efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Moderate) Monitor for altered response to thyroid hormones if coadministered with vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of oral thyroid hormones reducing their efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for altered response to thyroid hormones if coadministered with vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of oral thyroid hormones reducing their efficacy.
Warfarin: (Moderate) The concurrent use of thyroid hormones and warfarin potentiates anticoagulation effects of warfarin. The mechanism of this interaction may be the increased catabolism of vitamin K clotting factors as the hypothyroid state is corrected. As a result, the hypoprothrombinemic response to warfarin occurs earlier and to a greater degree. Dextrothyroxine has been shown to potentiate the effects of warfarin. Dextrothyroxine may increase the affinity of warfarin for its receptor sites in addition to increasing the catabolism of vitamin K dependent clotting factors. A reduction in the dosage of warfarin is recommended with concomitant therapy.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Adverse reactions to desiccated thyroid are uncommon. Aside from allergic reactions, like urticaria (hives) or skin rash (unspecified), adverse reactions usually indicate inappropriate or excessive dosage of thyroid hormones. Transient partial alopecia may occur in children in the first few months of treatment, but normal hair growth usually recovers.
 
Many of the signs and symptoms of thyroid hormone imbalance are subtle and insidious. Manifestations excessive dosage or hyperthyroidism include anorexia, diaphoresis, diarrhea, fever, headache, heat intolerance, irritability, insomnia, menstrual irregularity (e.g., amenorrhea), nausea/vomiting, nervousness or anxiety, tremor, and weight loss. Excess levothyroxine can indirectly increase the workload on the heart. In patients with underlying cardiac problems, this can produce symptoms including angina, atrial fibrillation, heart failure, palpitations, peripheral edema, and sinus tachycardia. Cardiac symptoms usually resolve with correction of the excessive dosage or hyperthyroidism. Elderly patients may only exhibit cardiovascular signs and symptoms. The clinician should be alert to constellations of symptoms that gradually worsen over time.
 
Some patients may not be receiving enough thyroid hormone. In these patients, signs or symptoms of underdosage or hypothyroidism may be present and include: lethargy, fatigue, constipation, cold intolerance, weight gain, impaired intellectual performance or other mental status changes, dry skin or hair, deepening of voice, large tongue, and, eventually, myxedema coma. Clinicians should also be aware of the above signs and symptoms to ensure adequate thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
 
Pseudotumor cerebri has been reported in pediatric patients receiving thyroid hormone replacement therapy. The exact incidence and causal relationship to thyroid hormone therapy is unknown.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism that could require an upward adjustment of the dosage of levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone. Signs or symptoms of underdosage or hypothyroidism include constipation, cold intolerance, dry skin (xerosis) or hair, fatigue, impaired intellectual performance or other mental status changes (e.g., depression), deepening of voice, lethargy, weight gain, tongue enlargement, and, eventually, myxedema coma.
 
Adverse reactions to levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone are rare. Adverse reactions usually indicate inappropriate dosage of the hormone. No well-documented evidence from the literature of true allergic or idiosyncratic reactions to thyroid hormone exist.
    Headline
    alopecia
    General Information
    Transient partial alopecia may occur in children in the first few months of levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone treatment, but normal hair growth usually recovers. Alopecia may be due to hyperthyroidism from therapeutic overdosage or to hypothyroidism from therapeutic underdosage.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    amenorrhea, anorexia, anxiety, appetite stimulation, diaphoresis, diarrhea, dyspnea, elevated hepatic enzymes, emotional lability, fatigue, fever, flushing, headache, heat intolerance, hyperthyroidism, infertility, insomnia, irritability, menstrual irregularity, muscle cramps, nausea, thyrotoxicosis, tremor, vomiting, weakness, weight loss
    General Information
    Many of the signs and symptoms of thyroid hormone imbalance are subtle and insidious. Manifestations of levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) excessive dosage or hyperthyroidism include anorexia, diaphoresis, diarrhea, dyspnea, elevated hepatic enzymes, emotional lability, fatigue, fever, flushing, headache, heat intolerance, hyperactivity, appetite stimulation, infertility, irritability, insomnia, menstrual irregularity (e.g., amenorrhea), muscle weakness, muscle cramps, nausea, vomiting, nervousness or anxiety, tremor, and weight loss. The clinician should be alert to constellations of symptoms that gradually worsen over time. Thyrotoxicosis is rare, but may result from massive overdosage producing symptoms that resemble thyroid storm.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amenorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      heat intolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperthyroidism
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      menstrual irregularity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      appetite stimulation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      thyrotoxicosis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pseudotumor cerebri
    General Information
    Pseudotumor cerebri has been reported in patients receiving thyroid hormone replacement therapy such as levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone. Symptoms such as headache, papilledema, and elevated opening pressures on lumbar puncture may occur within weeks of starting thyroid hormone replacement therapy and must be differentiated from brain metastases, if applicable.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pseudotumor cerebri
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    craniosynostosis, growth inhibition
    General Information
    In infants, excessive doses of levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone may produce craniosynostosis. Also, undertreatment may result in slowed reduced adult height, and overtreatment may accelerate the bone age and result in premature epiphyseal closure and compromised adult stature (growth inhibition). Slipped capital femoral epiphysis has been reported in children receiving levothyroxine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      craniosynostosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      growth inhibition
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    angina, atrial fibrillation, cardiac arrest, heart failure, hypertension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, peripheral edema, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Overtreatment with levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone may have adverse cardiovascular effects such as an increase in heart rate, cardiac wall thickness, and cardiac contractility and may precipitate angina or arrhythmias. Symptoms may include palpitations, sinus tachycardia, arrhythmias, hypertension, heart failure, angina, myocardial infarction, and cardiac arrest. Peripheral edema may also occur. Patients with subclinical hyperthyroidism, either from excessive thyroid hormone replacement or other, may also be at an increased risk for atrial fibrillation. One study compared elderly patients (mean age 65 years) with subclinical hyperthyroidism to euthyroid subjects for 2 years; atrial fibrillation was initially recorded in 8 patients and 3 additional patients developed atrial fibrillation during follow-up; the data correspond to a total incidence of atrial fibrillation of 28% in subclinical hyperthyroidism patients compared to 10% in euthyroid subjects. Lower initial doses of levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone are advised for patients where compromised integrity of the cardiovascular system, particularly the coronary arteries, is suspected or known such as patients with angina pectoris or the elderly. Also, reduce the dose in such patients if a euthyroid state can only be reached at the expense of an aggravation of the cardiovascular disease. Closely monitor infants for cardiac overload, arrhythmias, and aspiration from avid suckling during the first 2 weeks of thyroid hormone replacement.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    osteopenia, osteoporosis
    General Information
    Administration of excessive levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone may lead to osteopenia and osteoporosis. Suppressed serum thyrotropin (TSH) concentrations by use of another thyroid hormone levothyroxine was associated with bone loss and the potential increased risk for osteopenia and the premature development of osteoporosis. Because estrogen plays a protective role against bone loss, this increased risk is thought to be relevant in postmenopausal women receiving prolonged thyroid therapy. In a meta-analysis that pooled study data on the effects of slight over treatment with levothyroxine on pre- and postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in bone mass was observed in the postmenopausal study groups. Pooled study data contained skeletal measurements of the distal forearm, femoral neck, and lumbar spines of postmenopausal women. For all postmenopausal women, a theoretical bone consisting of 11.3% distal forearm, 42% femoral neck, and 46.7% lumbar spine was constructed (n = 317 measurements). Data showed that a postmenopausal woman at an average age of 61.2 years and treated with levothyroxine for 9.93 years (leading to suppressed serum TSH) would have an excess loss of bone mass of 9.02%; corresponding to an excess annual loss of 0.91% after 9.93 years of levothyroxine treatment as compared to healthy postmenopausal women.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      osteopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      osteoporosis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Counsel individuals about stopping biotin and biotin-containing supplements for at least 2 days prior to thyroid testing. Biotin in blood or other samples taken from individuals who are ingesting higher biotin dosages (i.e., doses of 10 to 300 mg biotin/day) in dietary supplements, including multivitamins, prenatal vitamins, and supplements for hair, skin, and nail growth, can cause clinically significant laboratory test interference in assays that use biotin-streptavidin technology. One individual reportedly had abnormal thyroid function tests (TFTs) that did not match the clinical context after starting biotin. Within 3 days of stopping supplementation with biotin, repeated TFTs were normal. Then, biotin was reintroduced to the same individual, and TFTs taken 16 hours after the last dose and after an overnight fast showed further evidence of biotin immunoassay interference. Discuss dietary supplement intake, particularly those that may contain biotin, with individuals and communicate to the lab conducting testing if the individual reports taking biotin-containing supplements. Consider laboratory test interference from biotin as a possible source of error if the lab test result does not match the clinical presentation of the individual and report any adverse events thought to be due to biotin interference to the lab test manufacturer and the FDA.

Description
  Text
  Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine), also known as desiccated thyroid, is a naturally occurring thyroid hormone derived from porcine thyroid glands. The tablets provide 38 mcg levothyroxine (T4) and 9 mcg liothyronine (T3) per grain (60 mg) of thyroid. Thyroid hormone is used to treat hypothyroidism that results from primary atrophy of the gland, functional thyroid deficiency, or decreased thyroid function secondary to surgery, radiation, or antithyroid agents. The preparation is also used to treat pituitary hypothyroidism, hypothalamic hypothyroidism, and cretinism. Dessicated thyroid may also be used rarely as a pituitary TSH suppressant, in the treatment or prevention of various types of euthyroid goiters, including thyroid nodules, subacute or chronic Iymphocytic thyroiditis (Hashimoto's), multinodular goiter, and in the management of certain types of thyroid cancer. Until the 1970's, thyroid hormone replacement therapy was performed with desiccated thyroid extracts. Because of considerable variations in levothyroxine (T4) and liothyronine (T3) content, these dessicated thyroid hormone extracts have been largely replaced in clinical medicine by the preferred use of synthetic levothyroxine (T4), which has a more reliable hormonal content, providing consistent gastrointestinal absorption, once-daily dosing, and provision of clinically stable serum levels of both T4 and T3. There is scientific and clinical evidence that the majority of the biologically active T3 hormone is generated from T4 in the human body. The replacement of thyroid hormone using synthetic levothyroxine (T4) is alone sufficient in most individuals with hypothyroidism, and is the preferred replacement therapy for routine use. Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine) has been in clinical use since 1939.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Both levothyroxine and liothyronine possess all the actions of endogenous thyroid hormones. Liothyronine (T3) is the principal hormone that exhibits these actions whereas levothyroxine (T4) is the major hormone secreted by the thyroid gland and is metabolically deiodinated to T3 in peripheral tissues.
 
The actions of thyroid hormones are extensive. In general, thyroid hormones influence the growth and maturation of tissues, increase energy expenditure, and affect the turnover of essentially all substrates. These effects are mediated through control of DNA transcription and, ultimately, protein synthesis. Thyroid hormones play an integral role in both anabolic and catabolic processes and are particularly important to the development of the central nervous system in newborns. They regulate cell differentiation and proliferation, and aid in the myelination of nerves and the development of axonal and dendritic processes in the nervous system. Thyroid hormones, along with somatotropin, are responsible for regulating growth, particularly of bones and teeth. Thyroid hormones also decrease cholesterol concentrations in the liver and the bloodstream, and have a direct cardiostimulatory action. Cardiac consumption is increased by the administration of thyroid hormone, resulting in an increased cardiac output. Administration of exogenous thyroid hormone to patients with hypothyroidism increases the metabolic rate by enhancing protein and carbohydrate metabolism, increasing gluconeogenesis, facilitating the mobilization of glycogen stores, and increasing protein synthesis. In response to reestablishing physiologic levels of thyroid hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations correct if the primary disorder is at the level of the thyroid.
 
The release of T3 and T4 from the thyroid gland into the systemic circulation is regulated by TSH (thyrotropin), which is secreted by the anterior pituitary gland. Thyrotropin release is controlled by thyroid-releasing hormone (TRH) secretion from the hypothalamus and by a feedback mechanism dependent on the concentrations of circulating thyroid hormones. Because of this feedback mechanism, the administration of pharmacologic doses of exogenous thyroid hormone to patients with a normal thyroid suppresses endogenous thyroid hormone secretion.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone is absorbed erratically and incompletely when administered orally, particularly in the presence of food. The average bioavailability of an oral dose is about 50 to 75%. Absorption of T4 can be reduced in patients with malabsorption syndrome, congestive heart failure, or diarrhea. Soybean infant formulas and anionic exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine) can also decrease absorption of T4. Liothyronine (T3) is almost completely absorbed with 95% being absorbed within 4 hours. The full therapeutic effects of thyroid hormone may not be evident for 1 to 3 weeks following oral administration and persist for the same amount of time following cessation of therapy.
  Text
  Levothyroxine-liothyronine (porcine) thyroid hormone is administered orally. The distribution of thyroid hormone into the body tissues has not been fully established, but it is believed that desiccated thyroid hormone distributes predominantly into the liver and kidney tissues. It does not appear to cross the placenta, and only minimal amounts are distributed into breast milk. Exogenously administered thyroid hormone is deiodinated in peripheral tissues, with small amounts metabolized in the liver and excreted in the bile. Iodine liberated during metabolism is used for hormone synthesis in the thyroid gland or is excreted in the feces or urine. The half-life of thyroid hormone varies with the concentrations of T3 and T4 in the preparation and typically will fall somewhere between their half-life values, which are approximately 2 days and about 6 to 7 days, respectively.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets
Administer once daily. Administer on an empty stomach with a glass of water at least 30 to 60 minutes before breakfast or other food for best absorption.
Administer apart from medications, medications, and dietary supplements that are known to reduce oral absorption of thyroid hormones.
Some tablets may have a strong, characteristic odor; this does not indicate that it is spoiled or defective in any way.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Greater than 120 mg/day PO desiccated thyroid is rarely needed. Failure to respond to doses of 180 mg/day PO suggests lack of compliance or malabsorption.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Greater than 120 mg/day PO desiccated thyroid is rarely needed. Failure to respond to doses of 180 mg/day PO suggests lack of compliance or malabsorption.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Greater than 120 mg/day PO desiccated thyroid is rarely needed in adolescents in whom growth and puberty are complete. Failure to respond to doses of 180 mg/day PO suggests lack of compliance or malabsorption.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Individualize dosage.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Individualize dosage.
  Text
  Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine) has a narrow therapeutic index; thyroid dosage must be individualized.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are necessary.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are necessary.
