=== Acetaminophen/Dextromethorphan — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3504)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetaminophen; dextromethorphan is an oral combination of an analgesic/antipyretic and antitussive indicated for the treatment of symptoms due to the common cold or flu, including body aches, cough, minor pain due to a headache or sore throat, and fever.

Routes: oral, topical, nasal; Common adult doses: Acetaminophen 4,000 mg/day PO; dextromethorphan 120 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, malaise, interstitial nephritis, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis

In an Overdose: Psychosis, hallucinations, ataxia, disassociation, and other CNS and neurological effects have been reported with abuse or overdosage. Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use acetaminophen; dextromethorphan with caution in individuals with hepatic disease.

ACETAMINOPHEN/DEXTROMETHORPHAN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Coricidin HBP Maximum Strength, Delsym Children's Cough + Sore Throat, Delsym Cough + Sore Throat, PediaCare Cough & Sore Throat Plus Acetaminophen, Robitussin Adult Honey CF MAX, Robitussin CF MAX Severe Cough + Sore Throat, Robitussin Honey CF MAX, Theraflu Multi-Symptom Flu Relief, Theraflu Multi-Symptom Severe Cold, Theraflu Severe Cold Relief, Triaminic Cough & Sore Throat, Triaminic Cough and Sore Throat, Triaminic Cough and Sore Throat Softchew, Tylenol Children's Cold + Cough + Sore Throat, Tylenol Children's Plus Cough and Sore Throat, Tylenol Cough and Sore Throat

Indication Specific Dosing

For temporary relief from symptoms due to a cold or flu: minor aches and mild pain, headache, cough, sore throat (pharyngitis), and to reduce fever

Oral dosage (solution or suspension with acetaminophen 160 mg and dextromethorphan 5 mg per 5 mL; e.g., Children's Tylenol Cold, Cough and Sore Throat)
Children 6 to 11 years


10 mL PO every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 5 doses (50 mL) per 24 hours.


Children 4 to 5 years


5 mL PO every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 5 doses (25 mL) per 24 hours.


Oral dosage (solution with acetaminophen 650 mg and dextromethorphan 20 mg per 20 mL; e.g., Delsym Cough and Sore Throat, Honey flavored)
Adults


20 mL PO every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 100 mL (5 doses) per 24 hours.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


20 mL PO every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 100 mL (5 doses) per 24 hours.


Oral dosage (solution with acetaminophen 650 mg and dextromethorphan 20 mg per 30 mL; e.g., Coricidin HBP Maximum Strength Cold, Cough and Flu Liquid)
Adults


30 mL PO every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 150 mL (5 doses) per 24 hours.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


30 mL PO every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 150 mL (5 doses) per 24 hours.


Oral dosage (chewable tablets or soft chews, each containing acetaminophen 325 mg and dextromethorphan 10 mg)
Adults


2 tablets (each containing acetaminophen 325 mg and dextromethorphan 10 mg) every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 10 tablets (5 doses) per 24 hours.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


2 tablets (each containing acetaminophen 325 mg and dextromethorphan 10 mg) every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 10 tablets (5 doses) per 24 hours.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

alcohol use disorder, ethanol ingestion, hepatic disease, hypovolemia, malnutrition


Use acetaminophen; dextromethorphan with caution in individuals with hepatic disease. A reduced total daily dose of acetaminophen may be warranted in these individuals. Acetaminophen has been associated with hepatotoxicity. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses more than 4 g/day and often involve more than 1 acetaminophen-containing product. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and with chronic ethanol ingestion while taking acetaminophen, which may be defined as 3 or more alcoholic beverages per day. Use acetaminophen with caution in individuals with alcohol use disorder, chronic malnutrition, severe hypovolemia (i.e., due to dehydration or blood loss), or severe renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less). Take care when prescribing, preparing, and administering acetaminophen to avoid risk of medication errors which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure that the total daily dose of acetaminophen from all sources does not exceed maximum daily limits.


asthma, emphysema, tobacco smoking


People with a chronic cough that lasts, such as occurs with tobacco smoking, asthma, or emphysema, or a cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus), should consult their care team before acetaminophen; dextromethorphan use. Patients should stop use and consult their care team if a cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or persistent headache. These could be signs of a serious condition. 


renal failure, renal impairment


People with significant renal impairment should generally consult their care team prior to using acetaminophen; dextromethorphan. Some resources recommend cautious use of acetaminophen in severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) and less frequent acetaminophen dosing in patients with renal failure (CrCl less than 10 mL/minute). Acetaminophen is generally the fever and pain reliever of choice in patients with kidney dysfunction. Guidelines recommend using the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration needed. Habitual use of acetaminophen should be discouraged.


children, infants, neonates


Due to the risk for serious adverse reactions, the FDA recommends against administration of over the counter (OTC) cough and cold products to neonates, infants, and children younger than 2 years of age. When administering OTC medications to older pediatric patients, advise caregivers to read product labels carefully, use caution when administering multiple products to avoid duplication of ingredients, and use only measuring devices specifically designed for use with medications. Thoroughly assess each patient's use of similar products, both prescription and nonprescription, to avoid duplication of therapy and the potential for inadvertent overdose.


pregnancy


The use of combination products of acetaminophen; dextromethorphan during pregnancy is not recommended. Controlled clinical trials of acetaminophen; dextromethorphan use during pregnancy are not available. Human surveillance data and retrospective studies have shown dextromethorphan to be relatively safe during the first trimester; a human epidemiologic study and a smaller controlled study have not demonstrated elevated risks of congenital malformations. In a controlled study, there were no cases of neural tube defects, and no differences in number of live births, spontaneous or elective abortions, stillbirths, or major or minor malformations among infants exposed to dextromethorphan during the first trimester and those who were not. The results suggested that use during pregnancy does not pose a risk to the fetus; however, due to the small sample size, an increased risk of rare malformations could not be ruled out. In a large, population-based case control study of maternal use of cough medications during early pregnancy, dextromethorphan use was associated with a small number of birth defects, including hydrocephalus, atrioventricular septal defect and transverse limb deficiency. Published epidemiological studies have not reported a clear association with acetaminophen use during pregnancy and birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Large observational studies of newborns exposed to oral acetaminophen during the first trimester have not shown an increased risk for congenital malformations or major birth defects; however, these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of risk because of methodological limitations. Some studies have, however, shown an association between prenatal oral acetaminophen exposure and neurodevelopmental problems, including motor delays, attention problems, behavioral problems, and poorer early language development. Long term acetaminophen use, increased dose, and frequency are associated with a stronger association. Both the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM) recommend acetaminophen as the first-line pharmacological therapy for pain and/or fever during pregnancy; however, they do also recommend that acetaminophen be used cautiously at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time.


breast-feeding


Acetaminophen; dextromethorphan use for short durations is compatible with breast-feeding. Acetaminophen is compatible with breast-feeding and is considered a first-line choice for analgesia, headache, or fever in the lactating individual, including for those patients who are immediately postpartum and planning to breastfeed. Amounts present in milk are much less than the doses usually given to infants, and adverse effects in breastfed infants appear to be rare. Limited published studies report acetaminophen is present in human milk, with similar concentrations in the milk and plasma. Average and maximum neonatal doses of 1% and 2%, respectively, of the weight-adjusted maternal dose are reported after a single oral dose of 1,000 mg. There is one well-documented report of rash occurring in a breastfed infant that resolved with drug discontinuation and recurred when acetaminophen was resumed. Some experts consider dextromethorphan, at usual adult doses for cough and for limited duration of use for this purpose, to be compatible with breast-feeding and unlikely to be harmful to the breastfed infant. Based on dextromethorphan's relatively low molecular weight, some transfer into breast milk is expected. One study estimated infant exposure via breast milk to be less than 1% of the usual maternal dose.


Pregnancy And Lactation


The use of combination products of acetaminophen; dextromethorphan during pregnancy is not recommended. Controlled clinical trials of acetaminophen; dextromethorphan use during pregnancy are not available. Human surveillance data and retrospective studies have shown dextromethorphan to be relatively safe during the first trimester; a human epidemiologic study and a smaller controlled study have not demonstrated elevated risks of congenital malformations. In a controlled study, there were no cases of neural tube defects, and no differences in number of live births, spontaneous or elective abortions, stillbirths, or major or minor malformations among infants exposed to dextromethorphan during the first trimester and those who were not. The results suggested that use during pregnancy does not pose a risk to the fetus; however, due to the small sample size, an increased risk of rare malformations could not be ruled out. In a large, population-based case control study of maternal use of cough medications during early pregnancy, dextromethorphan use was associated with a small number of birth defects, including hydrocephalus, atrioventricular septal defect and transverse limb deficiency. Published epidemiological studies have not reported a clear association with acetaminophen use during pregnancy and birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Large observational studies of newborns exposed to oral acetaminophen during the first trimester have not shown an increased risk for congenital malformations or major birth defects; however, these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of risk because of methodological limitations. Some studies have, however, shown an association between prenatal oral acetaminophen exposure and neurodevelopmental problems, including motor delays, attention problems, behavioral problems, and poorer early language development. Long term acetaminophen use, increased dose, and frequency are associated with a stronger association. Both the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM) recommend acetaminophen as the first-line pharmacological therapy for pain and/or fever during pregnancy; however, they do also recommend that acetaminophen be used cautiously at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time.


Interactions

Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Abiraterone: (Moderate) Abiraterone inhbits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor. If dextromethorphan- related side effects occur, a dose reduction or discontinuation of dextromethorphan may be necessary. In an in vivo drug-drug interaction trial, the Cmax and AUC of the CYP2D6 substrate dextromethorphan were increased 2.8- and 2.9-fold, respectively when dextromethorphan 30 mg was given with abiraterone acetate 1,000 mg daily along with prednisone 5 mg twice daily. The AUC for dextrorphan, the active metabolite of dextromethorphan, increased approximately 1.3 fold.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering alfentanil with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Amobarbital: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Antacids: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Use caution if acetaminophen and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in acetaminophen-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Acetaminophen is a minor (10 to 15%) substrate of CYP3A4. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of acetaminophen. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with cobicistat may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Cobicistat inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Barbiturates: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, coadministration of dextromethorphan and IV methylene blue should be avoided if possible. Methylene blue has been demonstrated to be a potent monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) and may cause potentially fatal serotonin toxicity (serotonin syndrome) when combined with serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs). Dextromethorphan increases central serotonin effects. If methylene blue is judged to be indicated, all SRIs, including dextromethorphan, must be ceased prior to treatment/procedure/surgery. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and dextromethorphan is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and dextromethorphan is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of bupropion is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of bupropion is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Busulfan: (Moderate) Use busulfan and acetaminophen together with caution; concomitant use may result in increased busulfan levels and increased busulfan toxicity. Separating the administration of these drugs may mitigate this interaction; avoid giving acetaminophen within 72 hours prior to or concurrently with busulfan. Busulfan is metabolized in the liver through conjugation with glutathione; acetaminophen decreases glutathione levels in the blood and tissues and may reduce the clearance of busulfan.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Carbamazepine may potentially accelerate the hepatic metabolism of acetaminophen. In addition, due to enzyme induction, carbamazepine may increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Clinicians should be alert to decreased effect of acetaminophen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary, and closer monitoring of clinical and/or adverse effects is warranted.
Charcoal: (Minor) Activated charcoal binds many drugs within the gut. Administering charcoal dietary supplements at the same time as a routine acetaminophen dosage would be expected to interfere with the analgesic and antipyretic efficacy of acetaminophen. Charcoal is mostly used in the setting of acetaminophen overdose; however, patients should never try to treat an acetaminophen overdose with charcoal dietary supplements. Advise patients to get immediate medical attention for an acetaminophen overdose.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of chloroprocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue chloroprocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Prolonged concurrent use of acetaminophen and salicylates is not recommended. Although salicylates are rarely associated with nephrotoxicity, high-dose, chronic administration of salicylates combined other analgesics, including acetaminophen, significantly increases the risk of analgesic nephropathy, renal papillary necrosis, and end-stage renal disease. Additive hepatic toxicity may occur, especially in combined overdose situations. Do not exceed the recommended individual maximum doses when these agents are given concurrently for short-term therapy.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with citalopram. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with clobazam may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor. Clobazam inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. A dosage reduction of dextromethorphan may be necessary for some patients. During one in vivo study, co-administration of dextromethorphan and clobazam resulted in increased AUC and Cmax of dextromethorphan by 90% and 59%, respectively.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with cobicistat may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Cobicistat inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dacomitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Coadministration of dapsone with acetaminophen may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Advise patients to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention with any signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia.
Darifenacin: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with cobicistat may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Cobicistat inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with cobicistat may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Cobicistat inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with desvenlafaxine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. In addition, the manufacturer of desvenlafaxine recommends that the dose of CYP2D6 substrates, such as dextromethorphan, be reduced by up to 50% if used with desvenlafaxine 400 mg/day, a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of bupropion is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of quinidine is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and quinidine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Acetaminophen plasma concentrations can increase by approximately 50% following administration of diflunisal. Acetaminophen has no effect on diflunisal concentrations. Acetaminophen in high doses has been associated with severe hepatotoxic reactions; therefore, caution should be exercised when using these agents concomitantly.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with duloxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Efavirenz: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with eliglustat may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Eliglustat inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is a UDP-glucuronyltransferase inhibitor. Acetaminophen is a substrate of UDP-glucuronyltransferases. The significance or effect of this interaction is not known; however, elevated concentrations of acetaminophen are possible. Monitor patients for adverse reactions if these drugs are coadministered.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with cobicistat may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Cobicistat inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with cobicistat may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Cobicistat inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with escitalopram. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Ethanol: (Major) The risk of developing hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen appears to be increased in patients who regularly consume alcohol. Patients who drink more than 3 alcohol-containing drinks a day and take acetaminophen are at increased risk of developing hepatotoxicity. Acute or chronic alcohol use increases acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by inducing CYP2E1 leading to increased formation of the hepatotoxic metabolite of acetaminophen. Also, chronic alcohol use can deplete liver glutathione stores. Administration of acetaminophen should be limited or avoided altogether in patients with alcoholism or patients who consume alcohol regularly.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Exenatide: (Minor) Although an interaction is possible, these drugs may be used together. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least 1 hour prior to an exenatide injection. When 1,000 mg acetaminophen elixir was given with 10 mcg exenatide (at 0 hours) and at 1, 2 and 4 hours after exenatide injection, acetaminophen AUCs were decreased by 21%, 23%, 24%, and 14%, respectively; Cmax was decreased by 37%, 56%, 54%, and 41%, respectively. Additionally, acetaminophen Tmax was delayed from 0.6 hours in the control period to 0.9, 4.2, 3.3, and 1.6 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before exenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying from exenatide use) and the clinical impact has not been assessed.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with fedratinib may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Fedratinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and dextromethorphan with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering fentanyl with dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of fluoxetine is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Additionally, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and the risk for serotonin syndrome. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with fluvoxamine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Frovatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Givosiran: (Moderate) If possible, avoid concomitant use of dextromethorphan with givosiran due to the risk of increased dextromethorphan-related adverse reactions. If use is necessary, consider decreasing the dextromethorphan dose. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor. Dextromethorphan is a sensitive CYP2D6 substrate. Givosiran may moderately reduce hepatic CYP2D6 enzyme activity because of its pharmacological effects on the hepatic heme biosynthesis pathway.
Hydantoins: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, coadministration of dextromethorphan and IV methylene blue should be avoided if possible. Methylene blue has been demonstrated to be a potent monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) and may cause potentially fatal serotonin toxicity (serotonin syndrome) when combined with serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs). Dextromethorphan increases central serotonin effects. If methylene blue is judged to be indicated, all SRIs, including dextromethorphan, must be ceased prior to treatment/procedure/surgery. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Imatinib: (Major) Imatinib, STI-571 may affect the metabolism of acetaminophen. In vitro, imatinib was found to inhibit acetaminophen O-glucuronidation at therapeutic levels. Therefore, systemic exposure to acetaminophen is expected to be increased with coadministration of imatinib. Chronic acetaminophen therapy should be avoided in patients receiving imatinib. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with imatinib may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Imatinib inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with acetaminophen may result in increased serum concentrations of acetaminophen. Acetaminophen is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan products are contraindicated in patients taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or in patients who have taken an MAOI within the last 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. A washout period of at least 14 days should elapse between the start of dextromethorphan after discontinuation of an MAOI. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotonergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotonergic agent and its active metabolites.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Agents which induce the hepatic isoenzyme CYP2E1, such as isoniazid, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolites. The combination of isoniazid and acetaminophen has caused severe hepatotoxicity in at least one patient; studies in rats have demonstrated that pre-treatment with isoniazid potentiates acetaminophen hepatotoxicity.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for possible loss of lamotrigine efficacy and seizure activity during coadministration with acetaminophen. Acetaminophen may induce glucuronidation pathways involved in lamotrigine metabolism. During a study among 12 healthy volunteers, concomitant administration of acetaminophen 4 g/day with lamotrigine at steady-state increased the formation clearance of lamotrigine glucuronide conjugates by 45%, decreased lamotrigine AUC by 20%, and reduced lamotrigine trough concentrations by 25%.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and dextromethorphan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering linezolid with dextromethorphan. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a reversible, non-selective MAO inhibitor and has potential to interact with serotonergic agents. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. However, the potential for interaction has been studied. Subjects were administered dextromethorphan (two 20-mg doses given 4 hours apart) with or without linezolid. No serotonin syndrome effects (confusion, delirium, restlessness, tremors, blushing, diaphoresis, hyperpyrexia) have been observed in normal subjects receiving linezolid and dextromethorphan.
Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Magnesium Salts: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Memantine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mepivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue mepivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, coadministration of dextromethorphan and IV methylene blue should be avoided if possible. Methylene blue has been demonstrated to be a potent monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) and may cause potentially fatal serotonin toxicity (serotonin syndrome) when combined with serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs). Dextromethorphan increases central serotonin effects. If methylene blue is judged to be indicated, all SRIs, including dextromethorphan, must be ceased prior to treatment/procedure/surgery. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Methohexital: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Methylene Blue: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, coadministration of dextromethorphan and IV methylene blue should be avoided if possible. Methylene blue has been demonstrated to be a potent monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) and may cause potentially fatal serotonin toxicity (serotonin syndrome) when combined with serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs). Dextromethorphan increases central serotonin effects. If methylene blue is judged to be indicated, all SRIs, including dextromethorphan, must be ceased prior to treatment/procedure/surgery. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
metyraPONE: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with milnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Mirabegron: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with mirabegron may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Mirabegron moderately inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with mirtazapine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Mitotane: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan products are contraindicated in patients taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or in patients who have taken an MAOI within the last 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. A washout period of at least 14 days should elapse between the start of dextromethorphan after discontinuation of an MAOI. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotonergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotonergic agent and its active metabolites.
Naratriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with nefazodone. Both drugs have serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Niraparib; Abiraterone: (Moderate) Abiraterone inhbits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor. If dextromethorphan- related side effects occur, a dose reduction or discontinuation of dextromethorphan may be necessary. In an in vivo drug-drug interaction trial, the Cmax and AUC of the CYP2D6 substrate dextromethorphan were increased 2.8- and 2.9-fold, respectively when dextromethorphan 30 mg was given with abiraterone acetate 1,000 mg daily along with prednisone 5 mg twice daily. The AUC for dextrorphan, the active metabolite of dextromethorphan, increased approximately 1.3 fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of fluoxetine is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Additionally, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and the risk for serotonin syndrome. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and dextromethorphan is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Administration of oritavancin, a weak inducer of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, with dextromethorphan resulted in a 31% reduction in the ratio of dextromethorphan to dextrorphan concentrations in the urine. The efficacy of dextromethorphan may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Panobinostat: (Major) Avoid coadministrating panobinostat with sensitive CYP2D6 substrates such as dextromethorphan due to increased dextromethorphan exposure. Consider alternatives to dextromethorphan if possible. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, closely monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor. Panobinostat inhibits CYP2D6. When a single 60-mg dose of dextromethorphan (DM) was administered after 3 doses of panobinostat (20 mg on days 3, 5, and 8), the DM Cmax increased by 20% to 200% and DM exposure (AUC) increased by 20% to 130% (interquartile ranges) vs. when DM was given alone; however, the change in exposure was highly variable among the patients studied.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of paroxetine is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Additionally, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and the risk for serotonin syndrome. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with paroxetine increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with pazopanib may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor. Results from drug-drug interaction trials conducted in cancer patients suggest that pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of dextromethorphan and pazopanib resulted in an increase of 33% to 64% in the ratio of dextromethorphan to dextrorphan concentrations in the urine, indicating reduced CYP2D6 metabolism to the dextrorphan metabolite.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Minor) Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to dextromethorphan if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa -2b is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
PENTobarbital: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan products are contraindicated in patients taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or in patients who have taken an MAOI within the last 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. A washout period of at least 14 days should elapse between the start of dextromethorphan after discontinuation of an MAOI. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotonergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotonergic agent and its active metabolites.
PHENobarbital: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Phenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and acetaminophen should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for acetaminophen-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of acetaminophen. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for acetaminophen-related adverse events.
Pramlintide: (Minor) Because pramlintide has the potential to delay the absorption of concomitantly administered medications, medications should be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after pramlintide injection when the rapid onset of a concomitantly administered oral medication is a critical determinant of effectiveness (i.e., analgesics).
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Primidone: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Procarbazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with procarbazine, an antineoplastic agent with monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Propafenone: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with propafenone might increase dextromethorphan exposure. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor. In vitro studies suggest that propafenone inhibits CYP2D6, but clinically relevant interactions have not been reported due to this potential action. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of quinidine is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and quinidine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Although clinical drug interaction studies have not been performed, antimalarial doses of quinine (greater than or equal to 600 mg/day in adults) may inhibit the metabolism of CYP2D6 substrates such as dextromethorphan and may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Rasagiline: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including rasagiline. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of acetaminophen with rifampin may increase the known risk of hepatotoxicity in relation to each drug. Severe hepatic dysfunction including fatalities were reported in patients taking rifampin with other hepatotoxic agents.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) Rolapitant increases exposure to dextromethorphan. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor. Rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor with a prolonged effect; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant is expected to persist beyond 28 days for an unknown duration. During drug interaction studies, exposure (AUC) to dextromethorphan following a single dose of rolapitant increased close to 3-fold on Days 8 and Day 22. The inhibition of CYP2D6 persisted on Day 28 with a 2.3-fold increase in dextromethorphan exposure (AUC), the last time point measured.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue ropivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites.
Secobarbital: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan products are contraindicated in patients taking selegiline, a selective monoamine oxidase type B inhibitor (MAO-B inhibitor) or in patients who have taken an selegiline within the last 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. A washout period of at least 14 days should elapse between the start of dextromethorphan after discontinuation of selegiline. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating selegiline after using dextromethorphan, a sufficient amount of time is advisable for clearance of dextromethorphan.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with sertraline. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. In addition, sertraline inhibits CYP2D6 and may increase systemic dextromethorphan exposure. Increased dextromethorphan concentrations may result in adverse effects consistent with the serotonin syndrome.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with St. John's Wort. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Minor) St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum induces cytochrome P450 1A2. About 10 to 15% of the acetaminophen dose undergoes oxidative metabolism via cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2E1, 3A4 and 1A2, which produces the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinonimine. Thus, theoretically St. John's wort might increase the risk of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to NAPQI.
SUMAtriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Terbinafine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of terbinafine is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tetracaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue tetracaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of tipranavir is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
tiZANidine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Tocilizumab: (Minor) Concomitant use of tocilizumab and dextromethorphan may lead to a decrease in the efficacy of dextromethorphan; clinical significance of this interaction is not known or established. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by tocilizumab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates as compared to metabolism prior to treatment. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping tocilizumab. A 5% decrease in dextromethorphan exposure and a 29% decrease in its metabolite, dextrorphan was noted 1 week after a single tocilizumab infusion. In vitro, tocilizumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan products are contraindicated in patients taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or in patients who have taken an MAOI within the last 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. A washout period of at least 14 days should elapse between the start of dextromethorphan after discontinuation of an MAOI. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotonergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotonergic agent and its active metabolites.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with tricyclic antidepressants. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and acetaminophen may result in altered concentrations of acetaminophen. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 and CYP2A6, and an inducer of CYP3A4. Acetaminophen is a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy. (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with vemurafenib increases dextromethorphan exposure. Vemurafenib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor. Coadministration of vemurafenib and dextromethorphan increased the AUC of dextromethorphan by 47% and the dextromethorphan Cmax by 36%.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with venlafaxine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vilazodone. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Warfarin: (Minor) Although acetaminophen is routinely considered safer than aspirin and agent of choice when a mild analgesic/antipyretic is necessary for a patient receiving therapy with warfarin, acetaminophen has also been shown to augment the hypoprothrombinemic response to warfarin. Concomitant acetaminophen ingestion may result in increases in the INR in a dose-related fashion. Clinical bleeding has been reported. Single doses or short (i.e., several days) courses of treatment with acetaminophen are probably safe in most patients taking warfarin. Clinicians should be alert for an increased INR if acetaminophen is administered in large daily doses for longer than 10 to 14 days.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
ZOLMitriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. (Minor) Zolmitriptan can delay the Tmax of acetaminophen by one hour. A single 1 g dose of acetaminophen does not alter the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan and its active metabolite. The interaction between zolmitriptan and acetaminophen is not likely to be clinically significant.


Adverse Reaction
dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue


Adverse reactions to dextromethorphan at usual doses used for cough suppression are generally mild and infrequent. Drowsiness, dizziness, and fatigue are not reported often.


psychosis, serotonin syndrome


Excessive dextromethorphan dosage due to higher than recommended doses or substance abuse may result in additional adverse effects consistent with the serotonin syndrome including: confusion, excitement, nervousness, restlessness, irritability, nausea, vomiting, and dysarthria (slurred speech). Psychosis, hallucinations, ataxia, disassociation, and other CNS and neurological effects have been reported with abuse or overdosage. Although dextromethorphan is the dextro-isomer of levorphanol, it has little dependence liability since it lacks the opiate agonist effects.


acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, contact dermatitis, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, fever, maculopapular rash, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Acetaminophen; dextromethorphan use may cause symptoms of hypersensitivity. Acetaminophen has been associated with a risk of rare but serious and sometimes fatal skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). These reactions can occur at any time during acetaminophen use, even after the first dose. Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) occurred in a 7-year-old girl after she took 3 doses of oral acetaminophen to treat a fever and sore throat. Twelve hours after the last dose, an erythematous rash appeared, which became generalized and vesicular over the next few hours. The girl developed a fever, low blood pressure, and an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and liver function tests. Skin biopsy was positive for subepidermal blister formation with full-thickness necrolysis of the epidermis. Acetaminophen rechallenge, performed 6 months later in an allergy clinic, produced similar symptoms within 30 minutes of administration and confirmed the initial diagnosis. SJS and TEN usually begin with flu-like symptoms followed by rash, blistering, and sloughing, all of which spread from the face downwards to the entire body (including palms of hands and soles of feet); recovery ranges from weeks to months and complications include corneal ulcerations, blindness, and internal organ damage. AGEP is typically a less severe reaction, characterized by acute onset, fever, and nonfollicular pustules on an erythematous rash; it usually resolves within 2 weeks of drug discontinuation. In addition to the aforementioned skin reactions, multiple cases of allergic contact dermatitis (delayed hypersensitivity type) have been reported in the literature. Various reactions, including generalized pruriginous micropapular eruption, facial edema, generalized pruriginous exanthem, exfoliative dermatitis, and generalized exanthema occurred within several hours after acetaminophen ingestion. Hypersensitivity reactions to acetaminophen may be manifested by urticaria, erythema, rash, maculopapular rash, and fever. Though rare, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. Discontinue acetaminophen immediately and seek medical attention for symptomatic treatment in individuals who develop dermatologic or hypersensitivity reactions.


agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis


Sporadic case reports of agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, neutropenia, and pancytopenia have been described in individuals taking acetaminophen.  


anorexia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, malaise


The hepatic effects of acetaminophen are well-known. In a study of combined data collected over a 5-year period (1998 to 2003) from 22 specialty medical centers in the United States, acetaminophen-induced liver injury was the leading cause of acute hepatic failure. Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing. Young children appear to be at less risk of developing hepatotoxicity, possibly because of an age-related difference in the metabolism of the drug. Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity is manifested as hepatic necrosis, jaundice, and hepatic encephalopathy. Early nonspecific symptoms include nausea/vomiting, anorexia, abdominal pain, and malaise. After acute overdose, elevated hepatic enzymes occur within 12 to 36 hours and maximal liver damage and hepatic impairment peak 3 to 5 days after ingestion. GI bleeding can occur secondary to hypoprothrombinemia. Administration of intravenous vitamin K is recommended for hypoprothrombinemia due to acetaminophen overdosage. If more than 150 to 200 mg/kg, 10 g, or an unknown amount of acetaminophen is ingested, obtain a serum acetaminophen concentration 4 hours after ingestion or as soon as possible thereafter. Promptly administer N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which serves as a substitute sulfhydryl donor for glutathione, if the acetaminophen concentration plots above the treatment line on the Rumack-Matthew nomogram. NAC treatment should begin immediately if the estimated time after ingestion approaches 8 hours. Avoid acetaminophen misuse; do not exceed recommended doses and account for intake from all sources (e.g., single-entity products and combination products). Excessive acetaminophen exposure, malnutrition, concurrent ethanol consumption (acute and chronic), and/or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid) may lead to greater exposure of the toxic metabolite, N-acetyl-para-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI), and increase the risk for toxicity.


interstitial nephritis, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis


Acetaminophen has been associated with chronic analgesic nephropathy, a condition characterized by interstitial nephritis and renal papillary necrosis in individuals receiving large doses of analgesics for an extended period of time. Though the National Kidney Foundation states there is negligible evidence to suggest chronic acetaminophen use causes analgesic nephropathy, they have recognized a weak association between chronic use and the prevalence of chronic renal failure and end-stage renal disease. In addition, acetaminophen overdose can result in acute renal failure and renal tubular necrosis, though such toxicity rarely occurs without severe hepatic toxicity. The risk of renal complications appears to be higher in individuals with poor nutrition, chronic alcohol consumption, or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid).


hemolysis, hemolytic anemia


Drug-induced hemolysis and hemolytic anemia have been associated with acetaminophen overdose in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Though several case reports of hemolytic anemia in G6PD-deficient patients receiving therapeutic doses of acetaminophen exist, a direct cause and effect relationship has not been well established. Monitor G6PD-deficient patients presenting with acetaminophen toxicity closely for signs and symptoms of hemolysis.


elevated creatine kinase, rhabdomyolysis


Acetaminophen-induced rhabdomyolysis has been described in a case report. A 17-year-old male with a past medical history of drug-induced reactions (hepatitis, agranulocytosis, desquamative dermatitis, and pyrexia) after receiving acetaminophen with or without concurrent antibiotics, was rechallenged with oral acetaminophen 400 mg. Within 5 hours of administration, the adolescent presented with febrile exanthema, neutropenia, and elevated creatine kinase, C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and interleukin-10; the skin eruption and fever lasted 36 hours. Investigate symptoms such as unusual tiredness, weakness or unusual pain and swelling of the extremities, nausea and vomiting, and dark-colored urine promptly.


heart failure, myocarditis


Toxic myocarditis was reported in a 15-year-old female after an intentional overdose of an unspecified amount of acetaminophen. The patient expired as a result of acute heart failure.


hearing loss


Prospective studies have shown there to be a slight but consistent association between regular analgesic use and hearing loss. Acetaminophen-related ototoxicity may result from depletion of glutathione, which protects the cochlea from noise damage. As a true long-term association may exist, counsel individuals to minimize long-term treatment with acetaminophen as much as possible. A prospective analysis examining the association between analgesic use and the risk of hearing loss was conducted in 62,261 women 31 to 48 years of age at study enrollment who were originally enrolled in the Nurses' Health Study II. The association between self-reported hearing loss and analgesic use (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and NSAIDs) was examined over 14 years. During 764,247 person-years of follow-up, 10,012 cases of hearing loss were reported. After adjustment for confounders, acetaminophen use 2 or more days per week was independently associated with an increased risk of hearing loss, with the relative risk of hearing loss increasing with increasing frequency of use. Acetaminophen use 2 to 3, 4 to 5, or 6 or more days per week was associated with relative risks of 1.11 (95% CI 1.02 to 1.19), 1.21 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.37), and 1.08 (95% CI 0.95 to 1.22), respectively (p = 0.0007). Of note, those with more frequent use of acetaminophen had higher body mass indices; were more likely to smoke, have hypertension, or have diabetes; and were less physically active. In a similar study in male individuals, the association between professionally diagnosed hearing loss and analgesic use (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and NSAIDs) was prospectively analyzed in 26,917 individuals 40 to 74 years of age at study enrollment over 18 years. During 369,079 person-years of follow-up, 3,488 cases of hearing loss were reported. After adjustment for confounders, the hazard ratio (HR) for acetaminophen-associated hearing loss was 1.22 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.39, p = 0.09) in individuals who were regular users of the drug (at least 2 times weekly) compared to those with less use. Men who regularly used acetaminophen for 4 years or more were 33% (14% to 56%) more likely to develop hearing loss than those with shorter use. In men younger than 50 years, the HR of hearing loss was 1.99 (95% CI 1.34 to 2.95); the degree of association generally decreased with aging. These studies do suggest association; however, data are based on individual reporting of the outcomes. Information regarding noise exposure and analgesic doses was not provided.


medication overuse headache, withdrawal


Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including acetaminophen, may lead to medication overuse headache. individuals may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise individuals about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of acetaminophen for at least 15 days/month or any combination of therapy for 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use. Pediatric guidelines recommend no more than 14 days/month of over-the-counter medication and no more than 9 days/month of any combination of therapy to avoid medication overuse headache.


diagnostic test interference


The pharmacological activity of acetaminophen in reducing fever may result in diagnostic test interference by diminishing the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting infection.


Description

Acetaminophen; dextromethorphan is an oral combination of an analgesic/antipyretic and antitussive indicated for the treatment of symptoms due to the common cold or flu, including body aches, cough, minor pain due to a headache or sore throat, and fever. Administration of acetaminophen in doses higher than recommended may result in hepatic injury, including the risk of liver failure and death; therefore, the maximum recommended daily dose of acetaminophen is not to be exceeded. The maximum recommended daily dose of acetaminophen includes all routes of acetaminophen administration and all acetaminophen-containing products administered, including combination products. Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Dextromethorphan acts centrally to elevate the cough threshold; it has no analgesic properties.

Mechanism Of Action

Acetaminophen acts within the CNS to increase the pain threshold by inhibiting central cyclooxygenase, an enzyme involved in prostaglandin (PG) synthesis. Acetaminophen inhibits both isoforms of central cyclooxygenase, COX-1 and COX-2. Acetaminophen does not inhibit PG synthesis in peripheral tissues, which is the reason for its lack of peripheral anti-inflammatory effects. Dextromethorphan is a non-competitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the brain and spinal cord, and this activity is responsible for its therapeutic and toxic effects. As an antitussive, dextromethorphan acts centrally on the cough center in the medulla to raise the threshold for coughing by decreasing the excitability of the cough center. Dextromethorphan is about equal to codeine in depressing the cough reflex. It is the d-isomer of levorphanol but has none of the analgesic, respiratory depressive, or sedative effects associated with opioid agonists when used in usual antitussive dosages. In therapeutic dosage, dextromethorphan also does not inhibit ciliary activity.

Pharmacokinetics

Acetaminophen; dextromethorphan is administered orally. At therapeutic concentrations, acetaminophen protein binding is about 10% to 25%. Acetaminophen is widely distributed throughout most body tissues except fat; low protein binding and molecular weight allow blood-brain barrier penetration. Vd is approximately 1 L/kg in children and adults. Acetaminophen is primarily metabolized in the liver by first-order kinetics and involves 3 separate pathways: glucuronidation, sulfate conjugation, and cytochrome P450 (CYP450) oxidation. Glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation are the major routes of metabolism, while a small amount of drug undergoes oxidative metabolism via CYP2E1 producing the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI). At therapeutic doses, NAPQI is rapidly conjugated with glutathione to form inert cysteine and mercapturic acid metabolites. The P450 isoenzymes 1A2 and 3A4 appear to have a minor role in the metabolism of acetaminophen. Supratherapeutic or repeated therapeutic doses of acetaminophen, fasting, and alcoholism may deplete glutathione stores, leading to increased concentrations of NAPQI and hepatotoxicity. Acetaminophen is renally excreted primarily as the glucuronide conjugate (40% to 65%) and sulfate metabolite (25% to 35%). Mercapturic acid and cysteine metabolites account for 5% to 12% of the urinary metabolites; less than 5% is excreted as unchanged drug. The elimination half-life of acetaminophen is 2 to 3 hours in healthy adult patients. Dextromethorphan is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. It is metabolized primarily by liver enzymes undergoing O-demethylation, N-demethylation, and partial conjugation with glucuronic acid and sulfate. In humans, (+)-3-hydroxy-N-methyl-morphinan, (+)-3-hydroxymorphinan, and traces of unmetabolized drug were found in urine after oral administration.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP2E1
Although acetaminophen is primarily metabolized via glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation, it is also a substrate of CYP2E1. Drugs that induce CYP2E1 may increase the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite and therefore increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Because CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 have negligible contribution to acetaminophen metabolism, the enzymes are unlikely to affect toxic metabolite formation. Dextromethorphan is primarily metabolized by the CYP2D6 isoenzyme and is a sensitive substrate.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Immediate-release acetaminophen is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, primarily the small intestine. Bioavailability ranges from 85% to 98%. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 30 to 60 minutes and range from 7.7 to 17.6 mcg/mL after a single 1,000 mg dose and 7.9 to 27 mcg/mL at steady-state after 1,000 mg every 6 hours in adult patients. In a study of febrile children 2 to 7 years of age, acetaminophen 12 mg/kg achieved maximum concentration (14.6 +/- 2.6 mcg/mL) within 0.55 +/- 0.08 hours. Maximum concentrations of acetaminophen are delayed with concurrent food administration, however the extent of absorption is not affected. The onset of antitussive action occurs in 15 to 30 minutes after dextromethorphan administration, and the duration of action is approximately 3 to 6 hours.

Hepatic Impairment

The half-life of acetaminophen may be prolonged in patients with hepatic disease.

Renal Impairment

In severe renal impairment (CrCl 10 to 30 mL/minute), the elimination of acetaminophen is slightly delayed, with an elimination half-life of 2 to 5.3 hours. In addition, the elimination of sulfate and glucuronide conjugates is 3 times slower in patients with severe renal impairment than in healthy subjects, leading to potential accumulation.

Pediatrics

Children and Adolescents
Acetaminophen is excreted primarily as the sulfate conjugate in children, due to a deficiency in glucuronide formation in younger pediatric patients. The relative contribution of sulfate and glucuronide conjugation changes with age and normal adult ratios (2:1 glucuronide to sulfate conjugates) are reached by 12 years of age.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations

Soft-Chews and Chewable tablets
Chew tablets before swallowing.


Oral Liquid Formulations

Oral solution
Measure each dose with a calibrated oral measuring device to ensure accurate dosage.
 
Oral suspension
Shake well prior to use.
Measure each dose with a calibrated oral measuring device to ensure accurate dosage.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Acetaminophen 4,000 mg/day PO; dextromethorphan 120 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

Acetaminophen 4,000 mg/day PO; dextromethorphan 120 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Acetaminophen 4,000 mg/day PO; dextromethorphan 120 mg/day PO.

Children

12 years: Acetaminophen 4,000 mg/day PO; dextromethorphan 120 mg/day PO.
6 to 11 years: Acetaminophen 1,600 mg/day PO; dextromethorphan 50 mg/day PO.
4 to 5 years: Acetaminophen 800 mg/day PO; dextromethorphan 25 mg/day PO for children's suspension. Safety and efficacy of other dosage forms not established.
1 to 3 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

666 Cold Preparation 325mg-10mg-30mg/15ml Solution

Acetaminophen 325mg, Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide 10mg, Guaifenesin 100mg, Phenylephrine Hydrochloride 5mg Oral tablet

Acetaminophen 650mg/30mL, Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide 30mg/30mL, Doxylamine Succinate 12.5mg/30mL Oral solution

Alka-Seltzer Plus Cold & Cough Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Capsule

Alka-Seltzer Plus Day Cold & Flu Liquid Gel Capsule

Alka-Seltzer Plus Day Severe Cold & Flu Powder for Solution

Alka-Seltzer Plus Night Severe Cold & Flu Powder for Solution

Alka-Seltzer Plus Severe Cold & Flu Effervescent Tablet (Citrus)

Alka-Seltzer Plus Severe Cough & Cold Day & Night Liquid Gel Capsule

Alka-Seltzer Plus Severe Cough Mucus & Congestion Liquid Gel Capsule

Alka-Seltzer Plus Severe Sinus Congestion & Cough Day and Night Liquid Gel Capsule

Alka-Seltzer Plus Severe Sinus Congestion Allergy & Cough Liquid Gel Capsule

Alka-Seltzer Plus Severe Sinus, Cold & Cough Liquid Gel Capsule

Alka-Seltzer Severe Cold & Flu Effervescent Tablet (Citrus)

Cold & Flu Daytime Relief Softgel

Cold & Flu Nighttime Relief Softgel

Comtrex Cold and Cough Day/Night Caplet

Comtrex Cold and Cough Nighttime Caplet

Comtrex Nighttime Cold And Cough Liquid (Orange)

CONTAC Multi-Symptom 325mg-15mg-6.25mg Liquid Gel

Coricidin HBP Day/Night Multi-Symptom Cold Combo Pack

Coricidin HBP Flu Maximum Strength Tablet

Coricidin HBP Flu Maximum Strength Tablet

Coricidin HBP Maximum Strength Cold, Cough & Flu 650mg-20mg/30mL Liquid (Cherry)

Coricidin HBP Maximum Strength Multi-Symptom Flu 325mg-2mg-10mg Tablet

Coricidin HBP Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold Solution

CVS Adult Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Solution

CVS Children's Cough & Runny Nose Suspension

CVS Children's Flu Relief Suspension (Bubblegum)

CVS Children's Mucus Relief Cough, Cold & Sore Throat Solution (Berry Blast)

CVS Children's Multi-Symptom Cold & Fever Liquid (Berry Burst)

CVS Children's Multi-Symptom Cold Plus Pain Relief Suspension (Grape)

CVS Children's Pain Relief Plus Multi-Symptom Cold Suspension (Grape)

CVS Cold & Cough Nighttime 500mg-15mg-6.25mg/15ml Solution

CVS Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Capsule

CVS Cold Relief Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cool Blast Caplet

CVS Cold Relief Multi-Symptom Daytime Non-Drowsy Cool Caplet

CVS Cold Relief Multi-Symptom Nighttime Liquid (Cool Mint)

CVS Cold Relief Multi-Symptom Severe Daytime Liquid (Cool Mint)

CVS Cold Relief Nighttime Cool Caplet

CVS Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Caplet

CVS Cough & Sore Throat 160mg-5mg/5ml Suspension (Cherry)

CVS Daytime Cold & Flu Relief Liquid

CVS DayTime Cold/Flu Liquid

CVS DayTime Cold/Flu Relief Maximum Strength Softgel

CVS Daytime Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief 325mg-10mg-5mg Softgel

CVS Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Combo Pack

CVS Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Combo Pack Softgel

CVS Daytime/Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Combo Pack

CVS Flu & Severe Cold Daytime Solution

CVS Flu HBP Maximum Strength 325mg-2mg-10mg Caplet

CVS Flu HBP Maximum Strength Tablet

CVS Head Congestion Cold Relief Daytime/Nightime Cool Blast Caplet

CVS Mucus Relief Sinus Pressure, Pain & Cough Maximum Strength Caplet

CVS Multi-Symptom Nighttime Cold/Flu Relief Liquid (Cherry)

CVS Nighttime Cold & Flu Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Liquid

CVS Nighttime Cold/Flu Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30ml Liquid

CVS Nighttime Cold/Flu Relief Liquid Twin Pack (Cherry)

CVS Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Liquid (Cherry)

CVS Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Softgel

CVS Non-Drowsy Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Combo Pack Softgel

CVS Severe Daytime Cold & Flu Solution

CVS Severe Cold & Cough Daytime Powder for Solution

CVS Severe Cold & Flu Daytime Relief Solution (Berry)

CVS Severe Cold & Flu Relief Caplet

CVS Severe Cold Multi-Symptom/Severe Cold & Cough Nighttime Powder for Solution

CVS Severe Cold/Flu Relief Daytime Maximum Strength Caplet

CVS Severe Congestion & Cold Maximum Strength Caplet

CVS Severe Cough & Cold Daytime/Nighttime Powder for Solution

CVS Severe Daytime Cold/Flu Relief Liquid

CVS Severe Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Twin Pack

CVS Severe Nighttime Cold & Flu Solution (Berry)

CVS Severe Nighttime Cold & Flu Twin Pack Solution (Berry)

CVS Sinus PE Pressure, Pain and Cough Caplet

Daytime/Nighttime Cold & Flu Relief Solution Combo Pack

Delsym Children's Cough + Chest Congestion + Cold Day and Night Combo Pack Solution

Delsym Cough + Sore Throat Solution (Honey)

Delsym Nighttime Cough Maximum Strength Fast Release Solution

Diabetic Tussin Cold and Flu 325mg-4mg-15mg Gelcap

Diabetic Tussin Nighttime 325mg-10mg-12.5mg/5mL Solution

Diabetic Tussin Nighttime Solution

Duraflu Tablet

Equaline Nighttime Cold/Flu Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30ml Liquid

Equaline Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Relief Solution (Berry)

Equate Cold Multi-Symptom Daytime 325mg-10mg-5mg Gelcap

Equate Daytime Cold & Flu 325mg-10mg-5mg/15mL Solution

Equate Nighttime Cold & Flu Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Liquid

Equate Nighttime Cold & Flu Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Liquid (Cherry)

Equate Vapor Ice Daytime/Nighttime Cold & Flu Combo Pack

Foster & Thrive Cold & Flu Nighttime Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Solution

Foster & Thrive Cold & Flu Nighttime Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Solution (Cherry)

Foster & Thrive Daytime Cold & Flu Relief 325mg-10mg-5mg/15mL Solution

Foster & Thrive Daytime Severe Cold & Flu Relief 325mg-10mg-200mg-5mg Caplet

Foster & Thrive Daytime Severe Cold & Flu Relief Solution (Honey)

Foster & Thrive Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Relief Softgel

Foster & Thrive Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Relief Solution (Honey)

Giltuss Children's Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Solution (Strawberry)

Giltuss Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu 650mg-4mg-13mg-10mg/10mL Solution (Strawberry)

GNP Cold & Flu Severe Cool Taste Caplet

GNP Cold Max Day/Night Cool Taste Caplet

GNP Cold Max Daytime Non-Drowsy Cool Taste Caplet

GNP DayTime Cold & Flu Liquid

GNP DayTime Cold/Flu Relief 325mg-10mg-5mg Softgel

GNP Multi-Symptom Night Time Cold & Flu Relief Solution

GNP Nighttime Cold/Flu Softgel

GoodSense Cold + Flu Severe Caplet

GoodSense Cold Head Congestion Severe Daytime Non-Drowsy Cool Ice Caplet

GoodSense Cold Max Multi-Symptom Day/Night Cool Taste Caplet

GoodSense Cold Multi-Symptom Daytime Non-Drowsy Cool Ice Caplet

GoodSense DayTime Cold & Flu Relief 325mg-10mg-5mg/15mL Liquid

GoodSense DayTime Cold/Flu Relief Maximum Strength Softgel

GoodSense DayTime Multi-Symptom Relief Cold & Flu 325mg-10mg-5mg Softgel

GoodSense Flu & Severe Cold & Cough Daytime Powder for Solution

GoodSense NightTime Cold & Flu Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Solution

GoodSense NightTime Cough & Sore Throat Cool Ice Solution

GoodSense Pressure + Pain + Cold PE Non-Drowsy 325mg-10mg-100mg-5mg Caplet

GoodSense Severe DayTime Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution

Health Mart Daytime Cold & Flu Liquid

Kroger Cold & Flu DayTime Multi-Symptom Relief 325mg-10mg-5mg/15mL Solution

Leader Adult Tussin CF Severe Multi-Symptom Cough Cold + Flu Maximum Strength Solution (Raspberry)

Leader Cold & Flu Daytime Multi-Symptom Softgel

Leader Cold & Flu Nighttime Multi-Symptom Softgel

Leader Cold Head Congestion Daytime 325mg-10mg-5mg Caplet

Leader Cold Head Congestion Daytime Caplet (Cool Blast)

Leader Cold Head Congestion Nighttime Cool Caplet (Cool Blast)

Leader Cold Head Congestion Nighttime Cool Ice Caplet

Leader Cold Head Congestion Severe Daytime Non-Drowsy Cool Ice Caplet

Leader Day-Time Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Liquid

Leader Day-Time Multi-Symptom Relief Cold & Flu Softgels

Leader Flu HBP Maximum Strength Caplet

Leader Nighttime Cold & Flu Relief Maximum Strength 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Solution

Leader Nighttime Cold & Flu Relief Multi-Symptom Softgel

Leader Nite-Time Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Solution

Leader Nite-Time Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Solution (Cherry)

Leader Nite-Time Multi-Symptom Relief Cold & Flu Softgels

Leader Severe Cold & Flu Caplet

Mapap Multi-Symptom Cold Formula 325mg-10mg-5mg Caplet

MooreBrand Severe Cold Relief Tablets Pseudoephedrine-Free 325mg-200mg-15mg-5mg Tablet

Mucinex Children's Cold & Flu 325mg-10mg-200mg-5mg/10mL Solution (Very Berry)

Mucinex Children's Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold Liquid

Mucinex Children's FreeFrom Daytime Multi-Symptom Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Liquid (Elderberry & Cherry)

Mucinex Children's FreeFrom Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Liquid

Mucinex Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Solution

Mucinex Day & Night Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Liquid Pack

Mucinex Fast-Max Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Caplet

Mucinex Fast-Max Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Capsule

Mucinex Fast-Max Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution

Mucinex Fast-Max Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution

Mucinex Fast-Max Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution (Orange & Pineapple)

Mucinex Fast-Max Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Clear & Cool Maximum Strength Solution

Mucinex Fast-Max Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Caplet

Mucinex Fast-Max Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Caplet

Mucinex Fast-Max Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Capsule

Mucinex Fast-Max Congestion & Headache Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Capsule

Mucinex Fast-Max Day Cold & Flu & Nightshift Night Severe Cold & Flu Caplet

Mucinex Fast-Max Day Severe Congestion & Cough & Nightshift Night Cold & Flu Caplet

Mucinex Fast-Max Day/Night Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Capsule

Mucinex Fast-Max DM Max Maximum Strength & Nightshift Cold & Flu Solution

Mucinex Fast-Max Kickstart Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Liquid (Menthol)

Mucinex Fast-Max Kickstart/Night Time Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Relief Maximum Strength Solution

Mucinex Fast-Max Severe Congestion & Cough Maximum Strength & Nightshift Cold & Flu Solution

Mucinex Nightshift Cold & Flu 650mg-20mg-2.5mg/20mL Solution

Mucinex Nightshift Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Caplet

Mucinex Nightshift Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Caplet

Mucinex Nightshift Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution

Mucinex Nightshift Sinus Maximum Strength Caplet

Mucinex Nightshift Sinus Solution

Mucinex Sinus-Max Day Pressure, Pain & Cough & Nightshift Night Sinus Maximum Strength Caplet

Mucinex Sinus-Max Day/Night Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Capsule

Mucinex Sinus-Max Pressure, Pain & Cough Maximum Strength Caplet

Mucinex Sinus-Max Pressure, Pain & Cough Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Capsule

Mucinex Sinus-Max Severe Congestion & Pain Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Capsule

Mucinex Sinus-Max Severe Congestion & Pain Maximum Strength/Nightshift Sinus Liquid

Night Time Cold & Flu Relief Softgel

Premier Value Children's Cold, Cough & Sore Throat Liquid

Premier Value Children's Plus Cold Multi-Symptom Suspension (Grape)

Premier Value Children's Plus Cough and Runny Nose Suspension

Premier Value Cold & Flu Severe Cool Taste Caplet

Premier Value Cold Daytime Non-Drowsy Cool Taste Caplet

Premier Value Cold Head Congestion Nighttime Cool Taste Caplet

Premier Value Cold Head Congestion Severe Daytime Non-Drowsy Cool Taste Caplet

Premier Value Cold Multi-Symptom Day/Night Cool Taste Caplet

Premier Value Cold Multi-Symptom Nighttime Liquid (Honey Lemon)

Premier Value Cold Nighttime Cool Taste Caplet

Premier Value Day-Time Cold/Flu Relief 325mg-10mg-5mg Softgel

Premier Value Day-Time Liquid

Premier Value DayTime Cold/Flu Relief 325mg-10mg-5mg Softgel

Premier Value Daytime Severe Cold & Flu Caplet

Premier Value Daytime/Nighttime Cold/Flu Relief Softgel

Premier Value DayTime/NightTime Combo Pack Softgel

Premier Value Flu Relief Therapy Daytime Liquid

Premier Value Mucus Relief Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Caplet

Premier Value Mucus Relief Severe Cold Maximum Strength Caplet

Premier Value Night-Time Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Softgel

Premier Value Night-Time Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Solution

Premier Value Night-Time Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Solution (Cherry)

Premier Value Nighttime Cold/Flu Relief Softgel

Premier Value Non-Aspirin Severe Congestion Caplet

Premier Value Pressure & Pain & Cold Caplet

Publix Cold Relief Head Congestion Day/Night Caplet

Publix Cold Relief Multi-Symptom Day/Night Caplet

Publix Daytime Cold Caplet

Publix Daytime Multi-Symptom Softgel

Publix Daytime PE Softgel

Publix Daytime PE/Nitetime Combo Pack Softgel

Publix Nighttime Cold Caplet

Publix Nite Time Cold and Flu Relief Softgel

Publix Nite Time Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Relief Solution

Publix Nitetime Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Relief Solution

Publix Severe Cold Caplet

Publix Severe Cold Multi-Symptom Caplet

Quality Choice Cold + Flu Severe Daytime/Nighttime Cool Taste Caplet

Quality Choice Cold Max Multi-Symptom Day/Night Cool Taste Caplet

Quality Choice Daytime Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Relief 325mg-10mg-5mg Liquid

Quality Choice DayTime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength 325mg-10mg-200mg-5mg Softgel

Quality Choice Flu HBP Maximum Strength 325mg-2mg-10mg Caplet

Quality Choice Mucus Relief Cold & Flu All-In-One Caplet

Quality Choice Mucus Relief Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Caplet

Quality Choice Mucus Relief Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength 650mg-20mg-400mg-10mg/20mL Liquid

Quality Choice Mucus Relief Sinus Pressure, Pain & Cough Caplet

Quality Choice Multi-Symptom Cold + Flu Severe Cool Taste Caplet

Quality Choice Nighttime Cold & Flu 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Liquid

Quality Choice NightTime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength 325mg-10mg-6.25mg-5mg Softgel

RITE AID Children's Cough & Runny Nose Plus Suspension (Cherry)

RITE AID Children's Flu Relief Plus Suspension (Bubblegum)

RITE AID Children's Multi-Symptom Cold Relief Plus Suspension (Grape)

RITE AID Cold and Flu Relief HBP Maximum Strength 500mg-2mg-15mg Tablet

RITE AID Daytime Cold & Flu Relief Liquid

RITE AID Daytime Cold & Flu Relief Softgel

RITE AID Daytime/Nighttime Cough & Cold Relief PE Caplets

RITE AID Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Relief Softgel

RITE AID Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold Relief Caplet

RITE AID Head Congestion & Cold Relief Severe Daytime Non-Drowsy Caplet

RITE AID Mucus Relief Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength 325mg-10mg-200mg-5mg Caplet

RITE AID Mucus Relief Plus Caplet

RITE AID Multi-Symptom Daytime Cold Relief Gelcaps

RITE AID Multi-Symptom Nite Time Cold/Flu Solution (Cherry)

RITE AID Nighttime Cold & Flu Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5/30ml Liquid

RITE AID Nighttime Cold & Flu Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5/30ml Liquid (Cherry)

RITE AID Nighttime Cold & Flu Relief Softgel

RITE AID Severe Cold & Cough Relief Daytime Powder for Solution

RITE AID Severe Cold & Cough Relief Daytime Solution (Cherry)

RITE AID Severe Cold & Flu Caplet

RITE AID Severe Cold Relief Caplet (Cool Blast)

RITE AID Severe Cold, Cough & Flu Relief Daytime Powder for Solution

Robitussin CF MAX Severe Cough + Sore Throat Maximum Strength Solution (Mint)

Robitussin CF MAX Severe Multi-Symptom Cough Cold + Flu Maximum Strength Solution

Robitussin Honey CF MAX Severe Cough, Flu + Sore Throat Solution

Robitussin Severe Multi-Symptom Daytime/Nighttime Cough Cold + Flu Maximum Strength Solution (Berry)

Select Brand Daytime Liquid

Sudafed PE Head Congestion + Flu Severe Tablet

Sunmark Nite Time Cold & Flu Multi-Symptom Relief Solution

Theraflu ExpressMax Severe Cold & Cough Daytime Solution (Berry)

Theraflu ExpressMax Severe Cold & Cough Daytime Warming Caplet

Theraflu ExpressMax Severe Cold & Cough Nighttime Solution (Berry)

Theraflu ExpressMax Severe Cold & Flu Caplet

Theraflu ExpressMax Severe Cold & Flu Solution (Berry)

Theraflu Multi-Symptom Flu Relief Maximum Strength 1000mg-30mg Powder for Solution (Honey Lemon)

Theraflu Multi-Symptom Severe Cold & Cough Daytime/Nighttime Powder for Solution

Theraflu Multi-Symptom Severe Cold Powder for Solution

Theraflu Multi-Symptom Severe Cold Relief 500mg-20mg Powder for Solution (Honey Lemon)

Theraflu Multi-Symptom Severe Cold Relief 650mg-20mg Powder for Solution (Berry Burst)

Theraflu PowerPods Severe Cold Daytime Pod (Berry)

Theraflu Severe Cold & Cough Daytime Powder for Solution

Theraflu Severe Cold & Cough Daytime Powder for Solution

Theraflu Severe Cold & Cough Daytime/Nighttime Powder for Solution

Theraflu Severe Cold and Cough Daytime and Nighttime Waming Solution

Theraflu Severe Cold and Cough Daytime Waming Solution

Theraflu Severe Cold Relief 325mg-10mg Soft Chews (Apple Cinnamon)

Theraflu-D Flu Relief Max Strength 1000mg-30mg-60mg/30mL Syrup (Cherry)

Theraflu-D Flu Relief Max Strength Nighttime 1000mg-4mg-30mg-60mg/30mL Syrup (Cherry)

Theraflu-D Severe Cold Relief + Nasal Decongestant 500mg-20mg-60mg Powder for Solution

Today's Health Children's Plus Cough and Runny Nose Suspension

Today's Health Day Time Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Solution

Today's Health Day Time Softgel

Today's Health Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Relief Solution

Today's Health Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Relief Solution (Cherry)

Today's Health Severe Cold Multi-Symptom Caplet

Top Care Children's Pain Relief Plus Multi-Symptom Cold Suspension (Grape)

Top Care Cold Head Congestion Daytime Cool Ice Caplet

Top Care Cold Head Congestion Nighttime Cool Ice Caplet

Top Care Cold Head Congestion Severe Daytime Non-Drowsy Cool Ice Caplet

Top Care Cold Multi-Symptom DayTime Cool Ice Caplet

Top Care Cold Multi-Symptom Nighttime Cool Ice Caplet

Top Care Cold Multi-Symptom Severe Daytime Non-Drowsy Cool Ice Caplet

Top Care Cough and Sore Throat Daytime Cool Ice Solution

Top Care DayTime Cold & Flu Relief Liquid

Top Care Multi-Symptom DayTime Cold and Flu Relief 325mg-10mg-5mg Softgel

Top Care Multi-Symptom NightTime Cold & Flu Relief Solution

Top Care Multi-Symptom Nite Time Cold & Flu Relief Solution

Top Care NightTime Cough & Sore Throat Cool Ice Solution

Top Care Nite Time Cold and Flu Relief Softgel

Triaminic Cough & Sore Throat Solution

Triaminic Multi-Symptom Fever 160mg-1mg-7.5mg/5ml Solution

Tussin CF Max Multi-Symptom Relief Maximum Strength 650mg-20mg-400mg/20mL Solution

Tylenol Children's Cold + Cough + Runny Nose 160mg-1mg-5mg/5mL Suspension (Grape)

Tylenol Children's Cold + Cough + Sore Throat 160mg-5mg/5mL Suspension (Bubblegum)

Tylenol Children's Cold Plus Flu Suspension (Bubblegum)

Tylenol Children's Cold Plus Flu Suspension (Grape)

Tylenol Cold & Flu Severe Caplet

Tylenol Cold & Flu Severe Liquid (Honey Lemon)

TYLENOL COLD + FLU + COUGH 325mg-10mg-6.25mg-5mg/15mL NIGHT Solution (WILD BERRY BURST)

Tylenol Cold + Flu Extra Strength Day and Night Caplet

Tylenol Cold + Flu Extra Strength Daytime Non-Drowsy Caplet

Tylenol Cold + Flu Severe Day and Night Caplet

TYLENOL COLD MAX DAY 325mg-10mg-5mg CAPLET

Vicks DayQuil Cold & Flu 325mg-10mg-5mg Liquicap

Vicks DayQuil Cold & Flu Multi-Symptom 325mg-10mg-5mg Liquicap

Vicks DayQuil Cold & Flu Relief Liquid

Vicks DayQuil LiquiCap/NyQuil Liquid Cold & Flu Relief Combo Pack

Vicks DayQuil Severe Cold & Flu Caplet

Vicks DayQuil Severe Cold & Flu Solution

Vicks DayQuil/NyQuil Cold & Flu Liquicap

Vicks DayQuil/NyQuil Cold & Flu Relief Liquicap Combo Pack

Vicks DayQuil/NyQuil Severe Cold & Flu Twin Pack Solution

Vicks Formula 44 Custom Care Cough & Cold PM Solution (Berry Burst)

Vicks NyQuil Cold & Flu Nighttime 325mg-15mg-6.25mg LiquiCap

Vicks NyQuil Cold & Flu Nighttime LiquiCap

Vicks NyQuil Cold & Flu Nighttime Relief Liquid

Vicks NyQuil Cold & Flu Nighttime Relief Liquid (Cherry)

Vicks NyQuil Cold & Flu Relief 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30ml Liquid

Vicks NyQuil Cold & Flu Relief Liquid (Berry)

Vicks NyQuil Cold & Flu Relief Liquid (Cherry)

Vicks NyQuil Cold & Flu Relief Liquid (Vanilla Cherry Swirl)

Vicks NyQuil Severe Cold & Flu Max Strength 325mg-10mg-6.25mg-5mg Caplet

Vicks NyQuil Severe Cold & Flu Solution

Vicks NyQuil Severe Cold & Flu Solution (Berry)

Wal-Flu Daytime Flu & Severe Cold/Nighttime Flu & Severe Cold Powder for Solution

Wal-Flu Severe Cold & Cough Daytime/Nighttime Powder for Solution

Wal-Flu Severe Cold Multi-Symptom Powder for Solution

Wal-Phed PE Day/Night Cold Caplet

Wal-Phed PE Pressure + Pain + Cold Caplet

Wal-Tussin Cold Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Softgel

Walgreens Children's Cold, Cough & Runny Nose 160mg-1mg-5mg/5mL Suspension

Walgreens Children's Cough & Runny Nose Suspension (Cherry)

Walgreens Children's Cough, Cold & Sore Throat Solution (Berry)

Walgreens Children's Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold Combo Pack

Walgreens Children's Multi-Symptom Cold Suspension (Grape)

Walgreens Children's Non-Aspirin Plus Cold & Cough Chewable Tablet

Walgreens Cold & Flu Daytime High Blood Pressure 650mg-20mg/30mL Solution

Walgreens Cold & Flu Daytime Multi-Symptom Capsule

Walgreens Cold & Flu Daytime Multi-Symptom LiquidCap

Walgreens Cold & Flu Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Liquid

Walgreens Cold & Flu Daytime/Nighttime Pack Softgel

Walgreens Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Softgel

Walgreens Cold & Flu Nighttime Multi-Symptom 325mg-15mg-6.25mg LiquidCap

Walgreens Cold & Flu Nighttime Multi-Symptom 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Liquid (Cherry)

Walgreens Cold & Flu Nighttime Multi-Symptom Capsule

Walgreens Cold & Flu Nighttime Multi-symptom Liquid

Walgreens Cold & Flu Nighttime Multi-Symptom LiquidCap

Walgreens Cold Head Congestion Nighttime Cool Caplet

Walgreens Cold Head Congestion Severe Daytime Non-Drowsy Caplet

Walgreens Cold Multi-Symptom Daytime Cool Caplet (Cool Blast)

Walgreens Cold Multi-Symptom Daytime Gelcap

Walgreens Cold Multi-Symptom Daytime/Nighttime Pack Tablet

Walgreens Cold, Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Softgel

Walgreens Cold/Flu Relief Daytime Capsule

Walgreens Cold/Flu Relief Daytime Liquid

Walgreens Cold/Flu Relief Night/Day Combo Pack Softgel

Walgreens Cold/Flu Relief Nighttime Liquid

Walgreens Cold/Flu Relief Nighttime Liquid (Cherry)

Walgreens Day Cold & Flu & Night Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Caplet

Walgreens Daytime Mucus Relief Severe Cold Maximum Strength Solution

Walgreens Daytime Multi-Symptom Non-Drowsy Cold & Flu 325mg-10mg-5mg/15mL Liquid

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Caplet

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Softgel

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Cold & Flu Maxium Strength Softgel

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Cold & Flu Multi-Symptom Softgel

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Elderberry Cold & Flu Day & Night Pack

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Intense Flu Relief Day & Night Pack (Black Cherry)

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold/Flu Relief Combo Pack

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Caplet

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Combo Pack

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Day & Night Pack

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Severe Congestion & Cough/Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Combo Pack

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Severe Sinus Congestion & Cough Softgel

Walgreens Daytime/Nighttime Sinus & Cold Softgel

Walgreens Flu BP Maximum Strength 500mg-2mg-15mg Tablet

Walgreens Flu HBP Maximum Strength Decongestant-Free 325mg-2mg-10mg Caplet

Walgreens Mucus Relief Cold Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Liquid

Walgreens Mucus Relief Cold Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Liquid (Mint)

Walgreens Mucus Relief Cold Flu & Sore Throat Maximum Strength Solution

Walgreens Mucus Relief Plus Caplet

Walgreens Mucus Relief Severe Cold Daytime/Cold & Flu Nighttime Maximum Strength Softgel

Walgreens Nighttime Cold & Flu High Blood Pressure 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Solution

Walgreens Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Liquid

Walgreens Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu 650mg-30mg-12.5mg/30mL Liquid (Cherry)

Walgreens Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution

Walgreens Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution (Honey)

Walgreens Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution (Mixed Berry)

Walgreens Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution (Original)

Walgreens Nighttime Severe Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution (Vapor Ice)

Walgreens Rest Easy Cold/Flu Relief Nighttime LiquidCap

Walgreens Severe Cold & Flu Day Maximum Strength Caplet

Walgreens Severe Cold & Flu Day/Night Combo Caplet

Walgreens Severe Cold & Flu Daytime Maximum Strength Softgel

Walgreens Severe Cold & Flu Daytime/Nighttime Maximum Strength Softgel

Walgreens Severe Congestion & Cough Daytime/Cold & Flu Nighttime Pack Caplet

Walgreens Severe Daytime Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution

Walgreens Severe Daytime Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution (Vapor Ice)

Walgreens Severe Nighttime Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Softgel

Walgreens Severe Nighttime Cold & Flu Maximum Strength Solution (Vapor Ice)

Walgreens Sinus Relief Daytime/Nighttime Maximum Strength Softgel

Walgreens Sinus Relief Daytime/Nighttime Maximum Strength Softgel

Walgreens Sinus Relief Maximum Strength Softgel

Walgreens Wal-Flu Multi-Symptom Cold & Cough Daytime/Nighttime Powder for Solution

Walgreens Wal-Flu Multi-Symptom Severe Cold Powder for Solution (Green Tea & Honey Lemon)

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; however, lower doses may be warranted due to decreased metabolism of one or both ingredients.

Renal Impairment

Dosage may require modification based on clinical response and degree of renal impairment, but no quantitative guidelines are available.

© 2026 Elsevier