=== Trospium (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2800)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Trospium is an oral non-specific antimuscarinic agent.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 40 mg/day PO IR tablets; 60 mg/day PO for ER capsules.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dysgeusia, blurred vision, visual impairment, xerophthalmia, confusion, delirium, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypertensive crisis, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, st-t wave changes, supraventricular tachycardia (svt), syncope, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash (unspecified), stevens-johnson syndrome, xerosis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Trospium is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients. Trospium exhibits anticholinergic activity that may be additive to other anticholinergic medications.

Brand Names
  - Sanctura
  - Sanctura XR

Dosage Forms
  - Trospium Chloride 20mg Oral tablet
  - Trospium Chloride 60mg Oral capsule, extended release

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (immediate-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults 75 years and older
        Dosage Description
        20 mg PO twice daily. May decrease dose to 20 mg PO once daily based on tolerability.
        Heading
        Adults 18 to 74 years
        Dosage Description
        20 mg PO twice daily.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 5 to 17 years†
        Dosage Description
        Dose is not definitively established; however, a study has suggested a dose range of 10 to 25 mg/day PO, given in divided doses twice daily. Only pediatric patients weighing more than 40 kg received 25 mg/day. Fifty-eight pediatric patients with nonneurogenic overactive bladder were randomized into one of 5 groups (daily doses of trospium 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg, 25 mg or placebo, given in divided doses twice daily) for 21 days. Trospium therapy resulted in improvement in clinical symptoms (day or nighttime incontinence) in 82% of patients receiving active drug versus 37.5% of patients receiving placebo (p = 0.006). In addition, clinical symptoms and urodynamic parameters (number of uninhibited contractions, volume at first contraction, contraction pressure) improved in 74% of trospium-treated patients. Trospium was well tolerated with 10% of patients experiencing minor side effects. Differences in efficacy or tolerability between the dosage groups were not apparent.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (extended-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        60 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of overactive bladder (OAB) with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urinary urgency, and urinary frequency, including neurogenic bladder

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Trospium is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients.
 
Trospium exhibits anticholinergic activity that may be additive to other anticholinergic medications.
 
Avoid ethanol ingestion within 2 hours of taking trospium extended-release capsules.
 
Due to the anticholinergic effects, trospium is contraindicated in patients with urinary retention. Anticholinergics may precipitate urinary retention in patients with preexisting urinary tract obstruction or prostatic hypertrophy, so caution is warranted. In addition, altered pharmacokinetics of trospium occur in renal impairment (CrCl < 30 ml/min) and renal failure; dosages should be adjusted (see Dosage). Use with caution in other patients with significant renal disease. Extended-release dosage forms (e.g., Sanctura XR) are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl < 30 ml/min). In elderly patients, the pharmacokinetics of trospium are unaltered; however, anticholinergic side effects unrelated to drug exposure have been observed. In elderly patients experiencing increased anticholinergic effects, the dose of trospium should be reduced (see Dosage).
 
Trospium is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled closed-angle glaucoma. Trospium may increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance in patients with closed-angle glaucoma (also called narrow-angle glaucoma) so caution is advised in patients with treated disease. Trospium is not contraindicated in patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma. The anticholinergic effects of trospium may make the eyes dry and this can cause irritation for wearers of contact lenses.
 
Trospium has a direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle that can delay gastric emptying and is therefore contraindicated in patients with gastric retention (e.g., gastroparesis, GI obstruction, pyloric stenosis). Trospium is not recommended for use in the setting of ileus, toxic megacolon, or severe ulcerative colitis. In general, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) may be aggravated by the use of anticholinergic medications.
 
Hepatic disease (e.g., cirrhosis) can significantly alter the disposition of trospium. Caution is advised by the manufacturer when administering trospium to patients with moderate or severe hepatic disease.
 
Patients should be advised to use caution when driving or operating machinery while receiving trospium until the effects of the drug are known. Anticholinergic drugs in general can cause blurred vision, dizziness, or somnolence in some patients. However, CNS related side effects are expected to be minimal in trospium-treated patients as it does not cross the blood-brain barrier; EEG data before and after trospium therapy show no significant changes. Continued precautions with driving or other tasks are not expected.
 
Anticholinergics in general may exacerbate the clinical symptoms of patients with myasthenia gravis or autonomic neuropathy.
 
Trospium is classified in FDA pregnancy risk category C. There are no studies of trospium in pregnant women; however, trospium has been shown to cause maternal toxicity in rats and a decrease in fetal survival in rats administered approximately 10 times the expected clinical exposure (AUC). The no effect levels for maternal and fetal toxicity were approximately equivalent to the expected clinical exposure in rats, and about 5—6 times the expected clinical exposure in rabbits. Malformations or developmental delays were not observed. Trospium should only be used in pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.
 
Trospium (2 mg/kg PO and 50 mcg/kg IV) is excreted, to a limited extent (< 1%), into the milk of lactating rats. The activity observed in the milk is primarily from the parent compound. It is not known whether or not this drug is excreted into human milk; caution is advised when trospium is administered to a woman who is breast-feeding. Trospium should be used during breast-feeding only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the baby.
 
Per the manufacturer, the safe and effective use of trospium in children has not been established. Trospium has been used in children with nonneurogenic overactive bladder syndrome and primary enuresis; however, definitive dosage regimens have not been FDA-approved. Trospium has been shown to be effective in reducing both daytime and nighttime incontinence as well as uninhibited detrusor contractions in chlidren. Trospium is well-tolerated with adverse event rates similar to that seen in adults.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    bladder obstruction, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary retention
    General Information
    Trospium is contraindicated in people with urinary retention. People with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction (bladder obstruction) or incomplete bladder emptying, such as prostatic hypertrophy, may be at increased risk for urinary retention. Monitor for symptoms of urinary retention with the use of trospium.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. There is little evidence in the literature regarding cross-reactivity among the antimuscarinics for overactive bladder (OAB) if an allergic response has previously been noted, unless the medications share chemical similarities, like chemical structure or similar metabolites. Some case reports recommend avoidance of other agents in the class if a serious allergic response has occurred.
    Headline
    gastroparesis, GI obstruction, myasthenia gravis, ulcerative colitis
    General Information
    Trospium is contraindicated in people with gastric retention (e.g., gastroparesis). Trospium, like other antimuscarinic agents, has a direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle that can delay gastric emptying and should be used with caution in people with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders (GI obstruction) due to the risk of gastric retention. Trospium should also be used with caution in conditions such as ulcerative colitis, intestinal atony (ileus), and myasthenia gravis.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Trospium is substantially excreted by the kidney and anticholinergic adverse reactions are expected to be greater in patients with renal impairment due to increased exposure. Dosage reduction is recommended when using the immediate-release formulation of trospium in people with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) or renal failure. Trospium extended-release capsules are not recommended in people with severe renal impairment or renal failure.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Caution is advised when administering trospium to patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C and hepatic failure), as exposure to trospium may be increased and there is a lack of clinical data in these patients.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma
    General Information
    Trospium can increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance in people with closed-angle glaucoma (narrow-angle glaucoma); use is contraindicated in people with uncontrolled closed-angle glaucoma. In people being treated for closed-angle glaucoma, trospium should only be used with careful monitoring and if the benefits outweigh the risks of treatment.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, ethanol ingestion
    General Information
    Trospium recipients should be advised to avoid driving or operating machinery or completing activities requiring coordination and concentration until they know how trospium will affect them. Trospium is associated with anticholinergic central nervous system (CNS) effects, including dizziness, confusion, hallucinations, and somnolence. Monitor for anticholinergic CNS effects in treated patients, particularly after initiating trospium or after dosage increases. If anticholinergic CNS effects occur, consider trospium dosage reduction or discontinuation. Ethanol ingestion should be avoided within 2 hours of administration of trospium extended-release capsules to avoid a dose-dumping effect from this product. In addition, alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria state that antimuscarinics with strong anticholinergic properties, such as trospium, are considered potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric adults with dementia/cognitive impairment (adverse CNS effects) or delirium/high risk of delirium (new-onset or worsening delirium). The geriatric adult receiving trospium may exhibit higher sensitivity to anticholinergic effects, an increased rate of adverse reactions, and the potential for reduced renal elimination of the drug.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of trospium use during pregnancy. Trospium should only be used in pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Trospium was not teratogenic at statistically significant levels in rats or rabbits administered doses up to 200 mg/kg/day; this dose corresponds to systemic exposures up to approximately 16 and 32 times, respectively (based on AUC), the clinical exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 60 mg. However, in rabbits, a single fetus in each of the 3 treated dose groups (1, 1, and 32 times the MRHD) demonstrated multiple malformations, including umbilical hernia and skeletal malformations. A no effect level for maternal and fetal toxicity was observed at levels approximately equivalent to the clinical exposure at the MRHD (20 mg/kg/day in rats and rabbits). No developmental toxicity was observed in the offspring of female rats exposed pre- and post-natally to up to 200 mg/kg/day.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use trospium with caution during breast-feeding; use is not a reason to discontinue breast-feeding. Trospium, as a poorly absorbed quaternary amine anticholinergic, is expected to have limited distribution into breast milk and negligible exposure in the breastfed infant. Trospium chloride (2 mg/kg PO and 50 mcg/kg IV) is excreted, to a limited extent (less than 1%, primarily the parent compound), into the milk of lactating rats. Long-term use of an anticholinergic might reduce milk production, but no data are available for trospium in this regard.  Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of trospium use during pregnancy. Trospium should only be used in pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Trospium was not teratogenic at statistically significant levels in rats or rabbits administered doses up to 200 mg/kg/day; this dose corresponds to systemic exposures up to approximately 16 and 32 times, respectively (based on AUC), the clinical exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 60 mg. However, in rabbits, a single fetus in each of the 3 treated dose groups (1, 1, and 32 times the MRHD) demonstrated multiple malformations, including umbilical hernia and skeletal malformations. A no effect level for maternal and fetal toxicity was observed at levels approximately equivalent to the clinical exposure at the MRHD (20 mg/kg/day in rats and rabbits). No developmental toxicity was observed in the offspring of female rats exposed pre- and post-natally to up to 200 mg/kg/day.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use trospium with caution during breast-feeding; use is not a reason to discontinue breast-feeding. Trospium, as a poorly absorbed quaternary amine anticholinergic, is expected to have limited distribution into breast milk and negligible exposure in the breastfed infant. Trospium chloride (2 mg/kg PO and 50 mcg/kg IV) is excreted, to a limited extent (less than 1%, primarily the parent compound), into the milk of lactating rats. Long-term use of an anticholinergic might reduce milk production, but no data are available for trospium in this regard.  Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
AbobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetylcholine Chloride: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Adefovir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of adefovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase adefovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Alosetron: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and trospium, an antimuscarinic which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid antimuscarinics in patients taking alosetron.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and amantadine is necessary.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of amiloride and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiloride and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of amiloride and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiloride and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when amoxapine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Anticholinergics: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium are used concomitantly with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Atropine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Botulinum Toxins: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when buprenorphine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as trospium. The concomitant use of buprenorphine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when buprenorphine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as trospium. The concomitant use of buprenorphine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Depending on the specific agent, additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and bupropion are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Depending on the specific agent, additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and bupropion are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when butorphanol is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as trospium. The concomitant use of butorphanol and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Caffeine: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of drugs used to treat overactive bladder, like trospium, to some degree. Patients with overactive bladder may wish to limit their intake of caffeine including caffeine from drugs, dietary supplements (i.e., guarana), beverages (i.e., teas, coffee, colas), or foods (i.e., chocolate).
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Dry mouth and drowsiness may occur in patients receiving cetirizine/levocetirizine; caution may be necessary during concomitant use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with the antimuscarinics.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dry mouth and drowsiness may occur in patients receiving cetirizine/levocetirizine; caution may be necessary during concomitant use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with the antimuscarinics.
Cevimeline: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Cholinergic agonists: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of cimetidine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cimetidine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Cisapride: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as trospium, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium are used concomitantly with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including clozapine.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Cyclobenzaprine possesses antimuscarinic properties, which can cause dry mouth, urinary difficulties and slowing of gastrointestinal motility. If used with other drugs with antimuscarinic properties, anticholinergic side effects can be additive.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
DaxibotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Depending on the specific agent, additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and bupropion are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of quinidine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase quinidine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium are used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects like disopyramide.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of dofetilide and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dofetilide and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Donepezil: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic coadministration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of memantine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase memantine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic coadministration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with an anticholinergic drug like trospium is necessary. Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with anticholinergics may result in additive drowsiness, hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Entecavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of entecavir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase entecavir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Erythromycin: (Minor) The antimuscarinics can antagonize the stimulatory effects of erythromycin on the GI tract when erythromycin is used therapeutically for improving GI motility.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol and alcohol-containing products while taking trospium. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression. Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of trospium extended-release capsules.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Food: (Moderate) Trospium is minimally absorbed after oral administration (< 10%). Administration with food (a high fat meal) significantly reduces absorption. Patients should be advised to take trospium at least 1 hour before meals on an empty stomach.
Galantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Glycopyrronium: (Moderate) Although glycopyrronium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after topical application, there is the potential for glycopyrronium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with trospium. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of glycopyrronium with other anticholinergic medications.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
IncobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Antimuscarinic drugs including trospium can raise intragastric pH. This effect may decrease the oral bioavailability of itraconazole. Trospium should be used cautiously in patients receiving itraconazole.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Dry mouth and drowsiness may occur in patients receiving cetirizine/levocetirizine; caution may be necessary during concomitant use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with the antimuscarinics.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Antipsychotic agents may disrupt core temperature regulation; therefore, caution is recommended during concurrent use of lurasidone and medications with anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Concurrent use of lurasidone and medications with anticholinergic activity may contribute to heat-related disorders. Monitor patients for heat intolerance, decreased sweating, or increased body temperature if lurasidone is used with antimuscarinics.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Memantine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of memantine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase memantine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of midodrine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase midodrine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Mirabegron should be administered with caution in patients taking antimuscarinic medications for the treatment of overactive bladder, such as oxybutynin, because of the risk of urinary retention. Monitor for symptoms of urinary difficulties or urinary retention. Patients may note constipation or dry mouth with use of these drugs together.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when nalbuphine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as trospium. The concomitant use of nalbuphine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and olanzapine are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and olanzapine are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and olanzapine are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
OnabotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium are used concomitantly with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Pantoprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when pentazocine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as trospium. The concomitant use of pentazocine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat. (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Oligohidrosis and hyperthermia have been reported in post-marketing experience with topiramate. Use caution when topiramate is prescribed with agents known to predispose patients to similar heat-related disorders such as trospium.
Pilocarpine: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Pralidoxime: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of procainamide and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase procainamide and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) When coadministering quetiapine and trospium, monitor for additive anticholinergic effects such as constipation, blurred vision, urinary retention, xerostomia, and tachycardia. Constipation is a commonly reported adverse effect of quetiapine and anticholinergic agents such as trospium. Constipation may lead to ileus. Intestinal obstruction has been reported with quetiapine, including fatal cases in patients who were receiving multiple concomitant medications that decrease intestinal motility. Anticholinergic effects observed during therapeutic use of quetiapine are thought to be associated with norquetiapine, an active metabolite of quetiapine which has demonstrated a moderate to strong in vitro binding affinity for several muscarinic receptor subtypes.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of quinidine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase quinidine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of quinine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase quinine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) MAOIs exhibit secondary anticholinergic actions. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when MAOIs are used concomitantly with antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive CNS effects are also possible when many of these drugs are combined with MAOIs.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
RimabotulinumtoxinB: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Secretin: (Major) Discontinue anticholinergic medications at least 5 half-lives before performing a secretin stimulation test. Anticholinergics may cause a hyporesponse to secretin stimulation testing and interfere with the test's diagnostic accuracy.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Solifenacin: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when solifenacin is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the interacting agent.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of trimethoprim and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase trimethoprim and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Tegaserod: (Major) Trospium is an antagonist at muscarinic cholinergic receptors and decreases gastrointestinal motility. Trospium, therefore, may potentially antagonize the actions of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, like tegaserod.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when thiothixene is used concomitantly with other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as trospium. Monitor for anticholinergic-related adverse effects such as constipation, blurred vision, and urinary retention during concurrent use.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Oligohidrosis and hyperthermia have been reported in post-marketing experience with topiramate. Use caution when topiramate is prescribed with agents known to predispose patients to similar heat-related disorders such as trospium.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Triamterene: (Minor) In theory, coadministration of trospium with drugs which are eliminated by renal cationic secretion, such as triamterene, may increase the serum concentrations of trospium or triamterene due to competition for the drug elimination pathway.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) In theory, coadministration of trospium with drugs which are eliminated by renal cationic secretion, such as triamterene, may increase the serum concentrations of trospium or triamterene due to competition for the drug elimination pathway.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of trimethoprim and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase trimethoprim and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Vancomycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of vancomycin and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase vancomycin and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Vibegron: (Moderate) Vibegron should be administered with caution in patients taking antimuscarinic medications for the treatment of overactive bladder, such as trospium, because of the risk of urinary retention. Monitor for symptoms of urinary difficulties or urinary retention. Patients may note constipation or dry mouth with use of these drugs together.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of zonisamide and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  In all placebo-controlled trials combined, the incidence of severe adverse events was 2.9% among patients receiving oral trospium 20 mg twice daily and 1.5% among those receiving placebo. Of these, 0.2% and 0.3%, respectively, were judged to be at least possibly related to treatment with trospium or placebo. The 2 most common adverse events reported by patients receiving trospium 20mg PO twice daily were xerostomia (20.1% of trospium-treated patients vs. 5.8% of placebo) and constipation (9.6% of trospium-treated patients vs. 4.6% of placebo) both of which are expected side effects of antimuscarinics. Xerostomia led to to the discontinuation of 1.9% of patients treated with trospium during U.S. trials. Most of the patients reported xerostomia within the first month of treatment. While xerostomia is the most commonly reported adverse event in patients taking trospium, it appears the severity of dry mouth is much less when compared to oxybutynin. In a clinical trial comparing oxybutynin with trospium, 56% and 54% of patients, respectively complained of dry mouth; however, severe dry mouth was reported in only 4% of patients treated with trospium compared to 23% with oxybutynin. Other gastrointestinal related adverse reactions that were reported with a frequency of >= 1% and more frequently than placebo include upper abdominal pain (1.5%), aggravation of constipation (1.4%), dyspepsia (1.2%), and flatulence (1.2%); those reported with a frequency < 1% include abdominal distention, nausea/vomiting, dysgeusia, and dry throat. The most common adverse reactions in patients receiving trospium extended-release capsules were xerostomia (10.7%) and constipation (8.5%). Other adverse reactions occurring in at least 1% and < 2% of patients receiving the extended-release capsules included dry eye, flatulence, nausea, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, urinary tract infection, constipation aggravated, abdominal distension, and nasal dryness.Other antimuscarinic-related adverse events include urinary retention and xerosis. Urinary retention was uncommon (1.2%) but reported at a frequency greater than that of placebo; similarly, xerosis was reported with a frequency of < 1%.Trospium is a quaternary amine and does not readily cross the conjunctiva or the blood brain barrier. As a result, anti-muscarinic related adverse events such as xerophthalmia and blurred vision are not expected to be common. Xerophthalmia was reported in 1.2% of patients treated with trospium and blurred vision was reported in < 1% of trospium-treated patients during controlled clinical trials.Trospium is a quaternary amine and does not readily cross the blood-brain barrier. CNS-related antimuscarinic effects such as drowsiness/fatigue and dizziness are expected to be minimal with trospium. In one study, EEG changes were not seen in volunteers receiving trospium chloride; however, pronounced changes were noticed after oxybutynin. Although not commonly occurring, fatigue has been reported in 1.9% of patients and at a frequency greater than placebo. In addition, headache was reported more commonly in patients receiving trospium (4.2%) than those receiving placebo (2%).Sinus tachycardia occurred in < 1% of patients but with a higher frequency than placebo in controlled clinical trials. Trospium at doses of 20 mg or 100 mg twice daily had no effect on the QT interval in healthy volunteers aged 18 to 45 years. However, an increase in asymptomatic ST-T wave changes (non-specific T wave inversions) was observed. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Heart rates did increase in correlation with the serum concentration of trospium. For the 20 mg dose, the heart rate increased 9.1 beats per minute and for the 100 mg dose, the heart rate increased 18 beats per minute. In addition, intravenous trospium has been used during gastrointestinal endoscopy in other countries. In 24 patients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy, 2 mg of intravenous trospium was associated with an approximate 40 beats per minute increase in heart rate (an increase from 81 beats per minute to 125 beats per minute) for the length of the procedure. 22 control patients had no change in heart rate during the procedure. While no significant cardiovascular events occurred during this study, the author warns that angina and arrhythmias are possible. Palpitations, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), and chest pain (unspecified) have been reported during post-marketing surveillance of trospium. The relationship of these reactions to trospium therapy is unknown.Neuroangioedema (angioedema) was reported in one patient during controlled clinical trials. Additional spontaneous adverse events, regardless of relationship to drug, reported from post-marketing surveillance include gastritis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactoid reactions, syncope, rhabdomyolysis, abnormal vision (visual impairment), hallucinations, delirium, rash (unspecified) and hypertensive crisis.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    In all placebo-controlled trials combined, the incidence of severe adverse events was 2.9% among patients receiving oral trospium 20 mg twice daily and 1.5% among those receiving placebo. Of these, 0.2% and 0.3%, respectively, were judged to be at least possibly related to treatment with trospium or placebo. The 2 most common adverse events reported by patients receiving trospium 20mg PO twice daily were xerostomia (20.1% of trospium-treated patients vs. 5.8% of placebo) and constipation (9.6% of trospium-treated patients vs. 4.6% of placebo) both of which are expected side effects of antimuscarinics. Xerostomia led to to the discontinuation of 1.9% of patients treated with trospium during U.S. trials. Most of the patients reported xerostomia within the first month of treatment. While xerostomia is the most commonly reported adverse event in patients taking trospium, it appears the severity of dry mouth is much less when compared to oxybutynin. In a clinical trial comparing oxybutynin with trospium, 56% and 54% of patients, respectively complained of dry mouth; however, severe dry mouth was reported in only 4% of patients treated with trospium compared to 23% with oxybutynin. Other gastrointestinal related adverse reactions that were reported with a frequency of >= 1% and more frequently than placebo include upper abdominal pain (1.5%), aggravation of constipation (1.4%), dyspepsia (1.2%), and flatulence (1.2%); those reported with a frequency < 1% include abdominal distention, nausea/vomiting, dysgeusia, and dry throat. The most common adverse reactions in patients receiving trospium extended-release capsules were xerostomia (10.7%) and constipation (8.5%). Other adverse reactions occurring in at least 1% and < 2% of patients receiving the extended-release capsules included flatulence, nausea, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, constipation aggravated, and abdominal distension. In addition, neuroangioedema (angioedema) was reported in one patient receiving trospium during controlled clinical trials. Additional spontaneous adverse events reported from post-market surveillance, regardless of relationship to drug, include gastritis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cystitis, urinary retention
    General Information
    Antimuscarinic-related urinary adverse events related to trospium include urinary retention. Urinary retention was reported in 1.2% of patients treated with trospium immediate-release tablets and at a frequency greater than that of placebo. Urinary tract infection or cystitis-like symptoms thought to be possibly related to use of the drug was reported in 1.2% of patients receiving the extended-release capsules; <1% of these patients reported urinary retention.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, visual impairment, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Trospium is a quaternary amine and does not readily cross the conjunctiva or the blood brain barrier. As a result, anti-muscarinic related adverse events such as xerophthalmia and blurred vision are not expected to be common. Xerophthalmia was reported in 1.2% of patients treated with trospium and blurred vision was reported in < 1% of trospium-treated patients during controlled clinical trials. Other adverse reactions occurring in at least 1% and < 2% of patients receiving the extended-release capsules included dry eye (xerophthalmia). Additional spontaneous adverse events, regardless of relationship to drug, reported from post-marketing surveillance include abnormal vision (visual impairment).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    confusion, delirium, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, hallucinations, headache
    General Information
    Trospium is a quaternary amine and does not readily cross the blood-brain barrier and CNS-related effects such as drowsiness/fatigue are expected to be minimal with trospium. However, patients should be monitored for anticholinergic and CNS effects, particularly after beginning treatment or increasing the dose. If a patient experiences CNS effects, dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered. Fatigue has been reported in 1.9% of patients receiving trospium immediate release at a frequency greater than placebo; headache was reported more commonly in patients receiving trospium (4.2%) than those receiving placebo (2%). In one study of antimuscarinic effects, EEG changes were not seen in volunteers receiving trospium chloride; however, pronounced changes were noticed after oxybutynin. Additional spontaneous adverse events, regardless of relationship to trospium, reported from post-marketing surveillance included dizziness, confusion, hallucinations, and delirium.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypertensive crisis, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, ST-T wave changes, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), syncope
    General Information
    Sinus tachycardia occurred in < 1% of patients but with a higher frequency than placebo in controlled clinical trials. Trospium at doses of 20 mg or 100 mg twice daily had no effect on the QT interval in healthy volunteers aged 18 to 45 years. However, an increase in asymptomatic ST-T wave changes (non-specific T wave inversions) was observed. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Heart rates did increase in correlation with the serum concentration of trospium. For the 20 mg dose, the heart rate increased 9.1 beats per minute and for the 100 mg dose, the heart rate increased 18 beats per minute. Palpitations, syncope, hypertension sometimes associated with hypertensive crisis, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), and chest pain (unspecified) have been reported during post-marketing surveillance of trospium; the relationship of these reactions to trospium therapy is unknown. In addition, intravenous trospium (not commerically available in the US) has been used during gastrointestinal endoscopy in other countries. In 24 patients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy, 2 mg of intravenous trospium was associated with an approximate 40 beats per minute (bpm) increase in heart rate (an increase from 81 bpm to 125 bpm) for the length of the procedure; control patients (n=22) had no change in heart rate during the procedure. While no significant cardiovascular events occurred during this study, the author warns that angina and arrhythmias are possible.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ST-T wave changes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertensive crisis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, xerosis
    General Information
    Xerosis (dry skin) was reported in < 1% of patients treated with trospium in clinical trials, but more commonly than with placebo. Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue and/or larynx has been reported with trospium. In one case, angioedema occurred after the first dose. Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life threatening. If involvement of the tongue, hypopharynx, or larynx occurs, discontinue trospium and immediately institute appropriate clinical measures to ensure a patent airway. Additional spontaneous adverse events, regardless of relationship to drug, reported from post-marketing surveillance include Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactoid reactions, and rash (unspecified).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    Additional spontaneous adverse events, regardless of relationship to trospium, reported from post-marketing surveillance include rhabdomyolysis; a causal relationship to drug exposure has not been firmly established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Trospium is an oral non-specific antimuscarinic agent. Trospium is indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder (OAB) in adults. Trospium decreases the frequency of bladder contractions, resulting in a reduction in urinary frequency, urgency and incontinence. Trospium is effective in patients with idiopathic or neurogenic detrusor overactivity, with symptoms of overactive bladder improving as early as 1 week following drug initiation. Trospium has been shown to be as effective as oxybutynin for OAB, but with better tolerability in clinical trials (e.g., less dry mouth). The most commonly reported adverse effects of trospium are dry mouth and constipation. Per guidelines for idiopathic OAB, either bladder-specific antimuscarinics (e.g., selective M3 agents) or beta-3 adrenergic receptor agonists may be used initially as monotherapy or in combination with behavioral interventions, depending on the patient's needs and treatment goals. When using a bladder-specific antimuscarinic, use of extended-release oral formulations (e.g., trospium ER) is preferred to immediate-release products as these formulations may limit side effects such as dry mouth; transdermal therapy (i.e., oxybutynin gels or patches) may also be offered. Patients experiencing intolerance or side effects may respond well to dose reduction or selection of a different bladder-specific antimuscarinic agent. Clinicians may consider combination therapy with an antimuscarinic and beta-3 agonist for patients refractory to monotherapy with either therapy alone. Trospium was initially FDA approved in 2004.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Trospium is an antispasmodic, competitive antimuscarinic agent used in the treatment of patients with overactive bladder. Trospium chloride antagonizes the effect of acetylcholine on muscarinic receptors in cholinergically innervated organs. Its actions reduce the tonus of smooth muscle in the bladder. Trospium chloride decreases the frequency of voluntary and involuntary detrusor contractions and increases maximum cystometric bladder capacity and volume at first detrusor contraction. Clinically, trospium decreases urinary urgency, frequency, and incontinence. When used at therapeutic doses, trospium chloride has negligible affinity for nicotinic receptors. Trospium is a quaternary amine and does not cross the blood-brain barrier or conjunctiva like oxybutynin, a tertiary amine.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration of either the immediate-release tablets or extended-release capsules, less than 10% of the dose is absorbed. Peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) occur between 5—6 hours post-dose. The pharmacokinetics of trospium are not dose dependent; the increase in Cmax for dosage increases of 20—40 mg and 20—60 mg is 3-fold and 4-fold, respectively. However, increases in AUC are dose proportional for single doses of up to 60 mg. Trospium exhibits diurnal variability in drug exposure, with a decrease in Cmax and AUC of up to 59% and 33%, respectively, for evening doses compared to morning doses. Concomitant administration of the immediate-release tablets with a high fat meal results in reduced absorption, with AUC and Cmax values 70—80% lower than those obtained during a fasting state. A 35% reduction in the AUC and a 60% reduction in the Cmax is observed when the extended-release capsules are given with a high-fat meal. It is recommended, therefore, that trospium be administered at least one hour before meals or on an empty stomach.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment, Cmax increases by 12% and 63%, respectively; however, the mean AUC is unchanged. The effect of severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of trospium is not known. Caution is advised when administering trospium to patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In patients with a CrCl < 30 ml/min, the mean AUC of trospium increases 4.5-fold, the mean Cmax increases 2-fold, and the half-life increases to 33 hours. In patients with severe renal insufficiency (CrCl < 30 ml/min), dosage adjustment for the immediate-release tablets is necessary. The pharmacokinetics of the extended-release capsules have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment; use of the capsules is not recommended in these patients.
    Name
    Elderly
    Description
    Age did not appear to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of trospium, however, increased anticholinergic side effects unrelated to drug exposure were observed in patients >=75 years of age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Trospium pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated for differences between genders, however, data from healthy subjects suggest lower systemic exposure in males compared to females.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The effect of race on trospium pharmacokinetics has not been studied.
  Text
  Trospium is administered orally.
 
Protein binding ranges from 48—85% depending on formulation and assay used; the majority of trospium is distributed in plasma with an apparent mean volume of distribution of 395 liters for a 20 mg dose of the tablets or > 600 liters for a 60 mg dose of the extended-release capsules. Trospium is a quaternary amine and does not readily cross the conjunctiva or the blood-brain barrier.
The metabolic pathway of trospium is not fully established. Of the absorbed dose, metabolites account for approximately 40% of the excreted dose. The major metabolic pathway is hypothesized to be ester hydrolysis and subsequent conjugation of benzylic acid to form azoniaspironortropanol with glucuronic acid. Cytochrome P-450 does not contribute significantly to the elimination of trospium. Trospium is an inhibitor of CYP2D6; however, the inhibition constant is 1000-fold higher than the Cmax that is achieved with the usual oral regimen. Drug interactions via cytochrome P-450 pathways are not expected to be significant for trospium.
After oral administration, 85.2% of the dose is recovered in the feces. Of the proportion of trospium that is absorbed, 60% is excreted unchanged in the urine. Active tubular secretion is a major elimination route for trospium; the mean renal clearance for trospium is 4-fold higher than average glomerular filtration rate. The plasma half-life of trospium following oral administration is approximately 20 hours for the tablets and 35 hours for the extended-release capsules.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets (immediate-release):
Administer at least 1 hour before meals or on an empty stomach.
 
Extended-release (ER) capsules:
Administer in the morning at roughly the same time each day.
Administer ER capsule whole. Do not open, cut, crush or chew.
Administer on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before a meal.
Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of administration.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    40 mg/day PO IR tablets; 60 mg/day PO for ER capsules.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    40 mg/day PO IR tablets; 60 mg/day PO for ER capsules.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustment in hepatic impairment are not available. Caution is advised in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment due to possible increased exposure.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl less than 30 mL/minute:
Immediate-release tablets: Reduce dosage to 20 mg PO once daily at bedtime.
Extended-release capsules: (e.g., Sanctura XR) : Use is not recommended.
