=== Yellow Fever Vaccine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1621)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Yellow fever vaccine, live is a subcutaneously administered preparation of live, attenuated yellow fever virus.

Routes: subcutaneous; Common adult doses: 0.5 mL/dose subcutaneous.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthenia, fever, headache, malaise, myalgia, edema, erythema, injection site reaction, anaphylactoid reactions, bronchospasm, rash (unspecified), urticaria, aphasia, guillain-barre syndrome, paresis, seizures, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hyperbilirubinemia, lymphopenia, renal failure (unspecified), respiratory depression, rhabdomyolysis, steatosis, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Chicken embryos are used in the production of the yellow fever vaccine.

Brand Names
  - STAMARIL
  - YF-Vax

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General Dosing Information
In the US, Sanofi Pasteur produces YF-Vax (strain 17D-204). YF-Vax will be unavailable due to delays in the production process. During that time, Stamaril, manufactured by Sanofi Pasteur in France, will be available at select locations.
Routine vaccination against yellow fever is not recommended in the US. Vaccination against yellow fever is recommended for persons living or traveling to known endemic or epidemic areas (i.e., Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Peru, Venezuela and sub-Saharan Africa), travelers to rural areas of countries that do not report the disease but that lie in the yellow fever endemic zone, and microbiology laboratory employees with exposure to yellow fever virus or to concentrated preparations of the yellow fever vaccine strain.
Desensitization protocol - If immunization is imperative and the individual has a history of severe egg sensitivity and has a positive skin test to the vaccine, the below desensitization procedure may be used to administer the vaccine. The patient needs to be under the direct supervision of a physician experienced in the management of anaphylaxis; immediate availability of emergency equipment is needed. Administer the following successive doses at 15 to 20 minute intervals: 0.05 mL subcutaneous of 1:10 dilution; 0.05 mL subcutaneous of full strength; 0.10 mL subcutaneous of full strength; 0.15 mL subcutaneous of full strength; 0.20 mL subcutaneous of full strength.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        A single 0.5 mL subcutaneous injection administered at least 10 days prior to potential exposure. A single dose of vaccine provides long-lasting protection for most healthy patients. An additional dose of yellow fever vaccine may be given to patients who were vaccinated during pregnancy, hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients, and HIV-infected patients. Re-immunization with a 0.5 mL subcutaneous dose is recommended every 10 years for persons who are at continued risk of exposure (i.e., travellers who plan to spend a prolonged period in endemic areas or who plan to travel to highly endemic areas such as rural West Africa and laboratory personnel who handle virulent yellow fever virus or concentrated preparations of the yellow fever vaccine virus strains) and is required by International Health Regulations. Some countries may require evidence of a valid yellow fever vaccination within the previous 10 years for entry.
        Heading
        Infants 9 months of age and older, Children, and Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        A single 0.5 mL subcutaneous injection administered at least 10 days prior to potential exposure. A single dose of vaccine provides long-lasting protection for most healthy patients. An additional dose of yellow fever vaccine may be given to patients who were vaccinated during pregnancy, hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients, and HIV-infected patients. Re-immunization with a 0.5 mL subcutaneous dose is recommended every 10 years for persons who are at continued risk of exposure (i.e., travellers who plan to spend a prolonged period in endemic areas or who plan to travel to highly endemic areas such as rural West Africa) and is required by International Health Regulations. Some countries may require evidence of a valid yellow fever vaccination within the previous 10 years for entry.
    Heading
    For yellow fever prophylaxis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Chicken embryos are used in the production of the yellow fever vaccine. Individuals with a history of acute egg hypersensitivity may develop an anaphylactic reaction after administration of the vaccine; avoid use of the vaccine in these people. If an egg-hypersensitive person must receive the yellow fever vaccine, perform skin testing prior to vaccine administration; desensitization may be considered in those individuals where vaccination is essential despite a positive skin test. Administration of the yellow fever vaccine is not contraindicated, and a skin test is not required, in persons with less severe or local allergies to eggs or feathers or in persons able to eat egg-containing products.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    The decision to administer or to delay vaccination with the Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live because of current or recent febrile illness depends on the severity of symptoms and on the etiology of the disease. Consider delaying vaccinations during the course of a moderate or severe acute illness with or without fever and administer after the acute phase of illness has resolved. All vaccines can be administered to people with mild illnesses. Vaccinate people with moderate or severe febrile illness as soon as they have recovered from the acute phase of the illness.
    Headline
    immunosuppression
    General Information
    Yellow fever vaccine, live is contraindicated in individuals with severe immunosuppression as they may be at risk of encephalitis or other serious adverse events following administration of the yellow fever vaccine, live. The manufacturer recommends immunosuppressed persons avoid travel to yellow fever endemic areas. If travel is unavoidable, these individuals should be advised of the risk, educated on methods for avoiding vector mosquitoes, and supplied a physician vaccination waiver letter. Immunosuppression may include acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS); symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID); hypogammaglobulinemia; agammaglobulinemia; altered immune states due to diseases such as leukemia, lymphoma, or generalized neoplastic disease; or an immune system compromised by corticosteroid therapy with greater than physiologic doses, alkylating drugs, antimetabolites, or radiation therapy. Short-term (less than 2 weeks) corticosteroid therapy or intra-articular, bursal, or tendon injections with corticosteroids should not be immunosuppressive and, thus, are not contraindicated in yellow fever vaccine recipients. Asymptomatic individuals with HIV and recent laboratory verification of immunocompetence should be offered the vaccine if travel to a yellow fever endemic area cannot be avoided. The seroconversion rate is likely to be reduced in those with HIV; therefore, documentation of a protective antibody response is recommended prior to travel. According to the opportunistic infection guidelines, the yellow fever vaccine, live is contraindicated for use in people with CD4 count less than 200 cells/mm3; however, it is recommended for asymptomatic individuals (age 59 years or younger) with CD4 counts greater than 500 cells/mm3. Additionally, the vaccine may be considered for use in asymptomatic individuals (any age) with CD4 counts between 200 and 499 cells/mm3.
    Headline
    myasthenia gravis
    General Information
    Yellow fever vaccine, live is contraindicated in individuals with thymic disorders associated with abnormal immune cell function (e.g., myasthenia gravis, thymoma). These may be an independent risk factor for the development of yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    It is not known whether yellow fever vaccine can cause fetal harm when administered during human pregnancy. In additional, animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. In 2 small safety studies involving pregnant individuals, administration of the yellow fever vaccine was not associated with adverse reactions affecting the mother or the fetus; however, one study did suggest that transplacental infection with the yellow fever virus may occur. Furthermore, pregnant people who received the yellow fever vaccine experienced a significantly lower seroconversion rate when compared against a non-pregnant control group. The yellow fever vaccine, live should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the pregnant person justifies the potential risk to the fetus. For advice and for documentation of a protective immune response to the vaccine, contact the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) at 970-221-6400.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    There is an increased risk of severe systemic adverse reactions to the yellow fever vaccine, live in individuals 60 years of age and older. Age greater than 60 years is a risk factor for vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease, which may present as non-specific multi-organ system failure or can be similar to fulminant yellow fever cause by wild-type yellow fever virus, with liver failure and internal bleeding, leading to death. Additionally, age over 60 and immunosuppresion are risk factors for post-vaccinal encephalitis, also known as vaccine-associated neurotropic disease. Based on data from the Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (VAERS), geriatric individuals, ages 65 to 75 years, are 2.5 times more likely to experience a systemic adverse reaction after administration of the yellow fever vaccine, live than individuals age 25 to 44 years; therefore, it is recommended to limit vaccination of persons over 60 years to those who are traveling to or residing in known yellow fever endemic or epidemic areas. Furthermore, when vaccinating the elderly, health care providers are advised to evaluate the recipient's health status prior to vaccination and closely monitor for signs and symptoms of yellow fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease, which typically occurs within 10 post-vaccination, and vaccine-associated neurotropic disease.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Yellow fever vaccine, live is contraindicated in breast-feeding individuals who are providing milk to infants younger than 9 months of age due to the potential for transmission of the vaccine virus into milk. There have been cases of vaccine-related encephalitis in exclusively breast-fed infants younger than 1 month of age who were exposed to yellow fever vaccine, live via breast milk. Discuss the risks and benefits of vaccinating breastfeeding individuals with infants and children 9 months and older. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) advises against the use of the vaccine in breast-feeding individuals. However, the ACIP supports vaccination of breast-feeding people at high risk for disease acquisition as a result of unavoidable or travel that cannot be postponed to yellow fever endemic areas. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential vaccine exposure in the child, and the risk of not vaccinating the lactating individual.
    Headline
    infants, neonates
    General Information
    Use of the yellow fever vaccine, live is contraindicated in neonates and infants less than 9 months of age because of the risk of post-vaccinal encephalitis or vaccine-associated neurotropic disease. The manufacturer recommends these individuals avoid or postpone travel to rural areas in yellow fever endemic zones or to countries experiencing a yellow fever endemic.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    It is not known whether yellow fever vaccine can cause fetal harm when administered during human pregnancy. In additional, animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. In 2 small safety studies involving pregnant individuals, administration of the yellow fever vaccine was not associated with adverse reactions affecting the mother or the fetus; however, one study did suggest that transplacental infection with the yellow fever virus may occur. Furthermore, pregnant people who received the yellow fever vaccine experienced a significantly lower seroconversion rate when compared against a non-pregnant control group. The yellow fever vaccine, live should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the pregnant person justifies the potential risk to the fetus. For advice and for documentation of a protective immune response to the vaccine, contact the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) at 970-221-6400.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Yellow fever vaccine, live is contraindicated in breast-feeding individuals who are providing milk to infants younger than 9 months of age due to the potential for transmission of the vaccine virus into milk. There have been cases of vaccine-related encephalitis in exclusively breast-fed infants younger than 1 month of age who were exposed to yellow fever vaccine, live via breast milk. Discuss the risks and benefits of vaccinating breastfeeding individuals with infants and children 9 months and older. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) advises against the use of the vaccine in breast-feeding individuals. However, the ACIP supports vaccination of breast-feeding people at high risk for disease acquisition as a result of unavoidable or travel that cannot be postponed to yellow fever endemic areas. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential vaccine exposure in the child, and the risk of not vaccinating the lactating individual.

Interactions
Abatacept: (Contraindicated) If possible, administer all needed vaccines before abatacept initiation. Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with abatacept or within 3 months of its discontinuation. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased and adjusted doses or boosters that are more frequent may be required. The immune response to an inactive vaccine may still be suboptimal. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Adalimumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to adalimumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving adalimumab. Before initiation of adalimumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Adalimumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Alemtuzumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Alkylating agents: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Alpha interferons: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Anakinra: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Anifrolumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Antimetabolites: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Antithymocyte Globulin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Atacicept: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Axicabtagene Ciloleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
azaTHIOprine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Baricitinib: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines to patients taking baricitinib, as no data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Also, no data are available on the response to vaccination with any vaccine during baricitinib receipt. Before baricitinib initiation, review the vaccination status of patients, and update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines.
Basiliximab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to basiliximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving basiliximab. At least 2 weeks before initiation of basiliximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Basiliximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Belatacept: (Contraindicated) Avoid the use of live vaccines such as the intranasal influenza vaccine; measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR; Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Live, BCG; yellow fever vaccine; oral polio vaccine; varicella virus vaccine live; and TY21a typhoid vaccine during belatacept treatment. Further, inactive vaccine receipt may not illicit an acceptable response; belatacept may blunt the effectiveness of some immunizations. Consult the most current CDC guidances for vaccination recommendations.
Belimumab: (Major) Live vaccines should not be given for 30 days before or concurrently with belimumab, as clinical safety has not been established. Because of its mechanism of action, belimumab may interfere with the response to immunizations. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Betamethasone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Bexarotene: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Bimekizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Blinatumomab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to blinatumomab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving blinatumomab. At least 2 weeks before initiation of blinatumomab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Blinatumomab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Botulism Immune Globulin, BIG-IV: (Major) Vaccination with live vaccines should be deferred until 6 months after administration of botulism immune globulin as antibodies present in immune globulin preparations may interfere with the immune response to live virus vaccines. This interval may be shortened if exposure to measles is likely. If such vaccinations were given shortly before or after botulism immune globulin administration, revaccination may be necessary.
Brensocatib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as brensocatib, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Brexucabtagene Autoleucel : (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during brexucabtagene autoleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with brexucabtagene autoleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Brodalumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to brodalumab recipients. Before initiation of brodalumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving brodalumab therapy.
Budesonide: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Busulfan: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Canakinumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving canakinumab; other vaccination schedules should be complete as recommended prior to initiating canakinumab treatment. No data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines, and the efficacy and safety of live vaccines have not been established in patients receiving canakinumab. The immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased, as canakinumab may interfere with normal immune response to new antigens. Limited data are available on the effectiveness of vaccination with inactivated antigens in patients receiving canakinumab. Because interleukin-1 blockade may interfere with immune response to infections, it is recommended that prior to initiation of therapy with canakinumab, adult and pediatric patients receive any recommended vaccination (including pneumococcal vaccine and inactivated influenza vaccines).
Carmustine, BCNU: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Certolizumab pegol: (Contraindicated) Avoid use of live vaccines during or immediately prior to initiation of therapy with certolizumab. Update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines prior to initiating certolizumab therapy. If immunization is necessary, refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Chlorambucil: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ciltacabtagene Autoleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during ciltacabtagene autoleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with ciltacabtagene autoleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
CISplatin: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to cisplatin recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving cisplatin. At least 2 weeks before initiation of cisplatin therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Cisplatin recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Cladribine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Clofarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Corticosteroids (systemic): (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Cortisone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
cycloSPORINE: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Cytarabine, ARA-C: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to cytarabine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving cytarabine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of cytarabine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Cytarabine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Dacarbazine, DTIC: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Deflazacort: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Deucravacitinib: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to deucravacitinib recipients. Before initiation of deucravacitinib therapy, consider completion of all age-appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving deucravacitinib therapy.
Deuruxolitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as deuruxolitinib, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
dexAMETHasone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
DOCEtaxel: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to docetaxel recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving docetaxel. At least 2 weeks before initiation of docetaxel therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Docetaxel recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Dupilumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to dupilumab recipients. Before initiation of dupilumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving dupilumab therapy.
Efgartigimod Alfa: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Emapalumab: (Major) Do not administer live or live attenuated vaccines to patients receiving emapalumab and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose of emapalumab. The safety of immunization with live vaccines during or after emapalumab therapy has not been studied.
Estramustine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Etanercept: (Contraindicated) Etanercept has not been found to act as a general immunosuppressant; however, the patient's underlying disease state may result in the immunosuppression. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Etrasimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Everolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to everolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving everolimus. Before initiation of everolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Everolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Fingolimod: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving fingolimod or has discontinued the drug in the last 2 months because of the risk of infection. No data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines, and the efficacy and safety of live vaccines have not been established in patients receiving fingolimod. Before fingolimod initiation, test patients without a history of chickenpox or without vaccination against varicella zoster virus (VZV) for antibodies to VZV. Consider VZV vaccination of antibody-negative patients before fingolimod initiation, and do not start fingolimod for 1 month to allow the full effect of vaccination to occur. In addition to the concerns with live virus vaccines, the immune response to inactive vaccines or toxoids may be decreased, as fingolimod may interfere with normal immune response to new antigens. No data are available on the effectiveness of vaccination with inactivated antigens in patients receiving fingolimod. Vaccination may be less effective during and for up to 2 months after fingolimod discontinuation. For example, as compared with the response of placebo recipients, the capacity to mount a skin delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to Candida and to tetanus toxoid was decreased by approximately 30% among fingolimod 0.5 mg daily recipients. Further, in healthy patients, antigen-specific IgM titers were decreased by 25% in response to pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV-23) immunization as compared with the response by placebo recipients. Similarly, IgG titers were decreased by 50% among fingolimod recipients as compared with placebo.
Floxuridine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to floxuridine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving floxuridine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of floxuridine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Floxuridine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Fludarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Fluorouracil, 5-FU: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to fluorouracil recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving fluorouracil. At least 2 weeks before initiation of fluorouracil therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Fluorouracil recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Folate analogs: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Golimumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to golimumab recipients. Limited data are available on the response to live vaccination or on the risk of infection or infection transmission after the administration. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Guselkumab: (Major) Avoid use of live vaccines in patients being treated with guselkumab; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving guselkumab. In addition, guselkumab may decrease the vaccine-induced immune response. Before initiation of guselkumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines.
Hydrocortisone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Hydroxyurea: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Icotrokinra: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as icotrokinra, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Idecabtagene Vicleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during idecabtagene vicleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with idecabtagene vicleucell. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Ifosfamide: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to ifosfamide recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving ifosfamide. Before initiation of ifosfamide therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Ifosfamide recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Imatinib: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Inebilizumab: (Major) Administer all immunizations according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of inebilizumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment and until B-cell repletion. In a neonate or infant with in utero exposure to inebilizumab, do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines before confirming recovery of B-cell counts in the infant. Depletion of B-cells in the exposed infant may increase the risks from live or live-attenuated vaccines.
inFLIXimab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to infliximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving infliximab. Before initiation of infliximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Infliximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Interferon Gamma-1b: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of interferon gamma-1b with other immunological preparations such as live vaccines due to the risk of an unpredictable or amplified, immune response.
Ixabepilone: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ixekizumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to ixekizumab recipients. Before initiation of ixekizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving Ixekizumab therapy.
Lebrikizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Leflunomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Lenalidomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Leniolisib: (Moderate) Patients receiving leniolisib may have a diminished response to live vaccines. Counsel patients receiving leniolisib about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Lisocabtagene Maraleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during lisocabtagene maraleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with lisocabtagene maraleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Lomustine, CCNU: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Melphalan Flufenamide: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in patients who are receiving melphalan. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period or altered immunocompetence.
Melphalan: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in patients who are receiving melphalan. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period or altered immunocompetence.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Methotrexate: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
methylPREDNISolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
mitoXANTRONE: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to mitoxantrone recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving mitoxantrone. At least 2 weeks before initiation of mitoxantrone therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Mitoxantrone recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Mycophenolate: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to mycophenolate recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving mycophenolate. At least 2 weeks before initiation of mycophenolate therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Mycophenolate recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to sirolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving sirolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of sirolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Sirolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Natalizumab: (Contraindicated) The immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased in patients who receive natalizumab; however, no data are available. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Nelarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Nilotinib: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Nipocalimab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Obinutuzumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to obinutuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving obinutuzumab. Before initiation of obinutuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Obinutuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Ocrelizumab: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Ofatumumab: (Major) Administer all live and live-attenuated vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ofatumumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with ofatumumab; wait until B-cell recovery occurs after discontinuation of ofatumumab before administering these vaccines to a patient.
Ozanimod: (Major) Avoid the use of live vaccines and live attenuated vaccines during ozanimod treatment and for up to 3 months after discontinuation of ozanimod treatment. Live vaccinations may be less effective during ozanimod treatment and also may carry the risk of infection.
PACLitaxel: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to paclitaxel recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving paclitaxel. At least 2 weeks before initiation of paclitaxel therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Paclitaxel recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
PEMEtrexed: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Pentostatin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ponesimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
PRALAtrexate: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
prednisoLONE: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
predniSONE: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Procarbazine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Purine analogs: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Remibrutinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Rilonacept: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving rilonacept. No data are available regarding the use of live vaccines during rilonacept treatment. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Risankizumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to risankizumab recipients. Before initiation of risankizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving risankizumab therapy.
Ritlecitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
riTUXimab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to rituximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving rituximab. At least 4 weeks before initiation of rituximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Rituximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to rituximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving rituximab. At least 4 weeks before initiation of rituximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Rituximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Rozanolixizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Sarilumab: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with sarilumab due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during sarilumab treatment has not been established. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving sarilumab. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of sarilumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Satralizumab: (Major) Administer all live vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of satralizumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with satralizumab.
Secukinumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to secukinumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving secukinumab. Before initiation of secukinumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Secukinumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased. Similar antibody responses were seen when healthy individuals who received a single 150 mg dose of secukinumab 2 weeks before vaccination with a non-US approved group C meningococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine and a non-US approved inactivated seasonal influenza vaccine. The efficacy of meningococcal and influenza vaccines has not been evaluated in patients undergoing treatment with secukinumab.
Sibeprenlimab: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines within 30 days prior to initiation of sibeprenlimab or during treatment as safety has not been established. Sibeprenlimab may interfere with immune responses to vaccines and increase the risk of infection from live vaccines.
Siltuximab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to siltuximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving siltuximab. Before initiation of siltuximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Siltuximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid the use of live vaccines during treatment with siponomid and for 4 weeks after stopping treatment due to the risk of secondary infection. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during siponimod treatment and for 4 weeks after siponimod treatment discontinuation.
Sirolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to sirolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving sirolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of sirolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Sirolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Spesolimab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines during and for at least 16 weeks after spesolimab treatment. Before initiation of spesolimab therapy, consider completion of all age-appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving spesolimab therapy.
Streptozocin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Tacrolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to tacrolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving tacrolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of tacrolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Tacrolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Temozolomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Temsirolimus: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during teriflunomide use, concomitant vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended. The long half-life of teriflunomide should be considered when contemplating administration of a live vaccine after stopping the medication if the teriflunomide drug elimination procedure has not been performed.
Tezepelumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tezepelumab recipients. Before initiation of tezepelumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available regarding the response to live vaccines in patients receiving tezepelumab therapy.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Thiotepa: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Tildrakizumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tildrakizumab recipients. Before initiation of tildrakizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving tildrakizumab therapy.
Tisagenlecleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during tisagenlecleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with tisagenlecleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Tocilizumab: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with tocilizumab due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during tocilizumab treatment has not been established. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving tocilizumab. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of tocilizumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Tofacitinib: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines to patients taking tofacitinib, as no data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Also, no data are available on the response to vaccination with any vaccine during tofacitinib receipt. Before tofacitinib initiation, review the vaccination status of patients, and update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines.
Tralokinumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tralokinumab recipients. Before initiation of tralokinumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving tralokinumab therapy.
Triamcinolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Ublituximab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Upadacitinib: (Major) Avoid use of live vaccines during or immediately prior to upadacitinib therapy initiation. Before initiating upadacitinib, it is recommended that patients be brought up to date with all immunizations, including varicella zoster or prophylactic herpes zoster vaccinations, in agreement with current vaccination guidelines.
Ustekinumab: (Contraindicated) If possible, administer all recommended vaccines before ustekinumab initiation. Ustekinumab recipients may receive inactive vaccines, but the elicited immune response may be insufficient to prevent disease. Do not administer live vaccines to a ustekinumab recipient. Furthermore, do not administer BCG live vaccines for either 1 year before or 1 year after ustekinumab receipt, due to the infectious risk for Mycobacteria. No data are available on the response to live vaccination or on the risk of infection or infection transmission after the administration of other live vaccines to ustekinumab recipients. Cautious administration of ustekinumab to household contacts of ustekinumab recipients may be warranted due to the potential risk for shedding from the household contact and transmission to the patient. Practitioners should also refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Vaccinia Immune Globulin, VIG: (Major) Defer vaccination with live attenuated virus vaccines until approximately 3 months after administration of vaccinia immune globulin (VIG). Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with the immune globulin so that appropriate measures can be taken. The efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines may be impaired by vaccinia immune globulin (VIG) administration; revaccination may be necessary. The passive transfer of antibodies from the immune globulin may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines.
Vamorolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Vedolizumab: (Major) Avoid administering live vaccines to vedolizumab recipients unless the benefits outweigh the risks; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vedolizumab. Before initiation of vedolizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vedolizumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid live vaccines to venetoclax recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving venetoclax. Before initiation of venetoclax therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Venetoclax recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
vinCRIStine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Vinorelbine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vinorelbine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vinorelbine. Before initiation of vinorelbine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vinorelbine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Voclosporin: (Major) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    asthenia, fever, headache, malaise, myalgia
    General Information
    Mild systemic adverse reactions may develop after administration of the yellow fever vaccine, live. These reactions usually occur within 5 to 10 days of vaccination and include headache (5% to 30%), myalgia (10% to 30%), malaise (10% to 30%), asthenia (10% to 30%), and low-grade fever (less than 5%). Available data suggest that elderly patients are at increased risk for developing a vaccine-associated systemic adverse reaction; thus, health care providers are advised to closely monitor elderly patients for up to 10 days after vaccination.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, erythema, injection site reaction
    General Information
    Injection site reactions have been reported following subcutaneous administration of the yellow fever vaccine, live. During a 2001 clinical trial in which the yellow fever vaccine was used as a control, injection site reactions were among the most commonly reported adverse events. The injection site reaction is usually mild to moderate in severity and includes symptoms such as injection site edema, erythema, and pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, bronchospasm, rash (unspecified), urticaria
    General Information
    Immediate hypersensitivity and anaphylactoid reactions may develop after administration of the yellow fever vaccine, live. Adverse events associated with a hypersensitivity reaction include asthma or bronchospasm, rash (unspecified) (3.2%), and urticaria. According to the manufacturer, these adverse reactions are uncommon and occur primarily in individuals with history of egg allergies.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    aphasia, Guillain-Barre syndrome, paresis, seizures
    General Information
    Neurologic adverse reactions have rarely been reported following administration of the yellow fever vaccine, live. These serious reactions have been called yellow-fever vaccine-associated neurotropic disease (YEL-AND). Cases of YEL-AND (previously named post-vaccine encephalitis) typically occur in first-time vaccinees only, with an onset of illness between 2 and 30 days post-vaccination. The illness is often accompanied by fever (> 101.5 degrees F for greater than 24 hours) and headache (>= 24 hours duration). These adverse events include Guillain-Barre syndrome, seizures, focal neurological deficits (e.g., aphasia, paresis), and neurotropic disease. The estimated incidence is 1 in every 100,000 doses. The case fatality rate is < 5%, and 95% of patients recover. Persons at increased risk of these reactions include those infants less than 9 months of age and persons who are immunosuppressed. As a result, use of the vaccine must be avoided in these populations.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      Guillain-Barre syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      aphasia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hyperbilirubinemia, lymphopenia, renal failure (unspecified), respiratory depression, rhabdomyolysis, steatosis, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    The yellow fever vaccine, live is associated with the development of yellow-fever vaccine-associated viscerotropic disease (YEL-AVD), a very rare illness similar to the native wild-type illness and resulting in multiple organ system failure. The incidence in the US is estimated at 1 case per 400,000 doses distributed, while rates are higher among older adults (6.2 events per 100,000 doses in individuals 65 years and older). Viscerotropic disease is a non-specific, febrile syndrome that initially presents as fatigue, headache, and myalgia (similar to viremia) with elevated hepatic enzymes. The disease rapidly progresses to a severe illness that includes hepatic steatosis, hyperbilirubinemia, lymphopenia, and thrombocytopenia, and ultimately additional organ failure such as respiratory depression (failure requiring ventilator support), hypotension requiring vasopressors, hepatic failure, and renal failure (unspecified) requiring dialysis. Rhabdomyolysis may be present. The onset of signs and symptoms is within 10 days after vaccination and the syndrome is fatal in 60% of all cases. In some patients with YEL-AVD a medical history of thymic disease has been reported. Age older than 60 has been identified as a risk factor. Based on the severity of this vaccine-associated disease, health care providers are advised to refrain from immunizing any person not at risk of exposure to the yellow fever virus.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      steatosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Yellow fever vaccine, live is a subcutaneously administered preparation of live, attenuated yellow fever virus. Yellow fever, so named because some patients get jaundice, is found primarily in the tropical and subtropical areas of Africa and South America. The disease is caused by a flavivirus that is transmitted by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. Routine vaccination is not recommended in the US; however, in response to a re-emergence of epidemics of the disease over the last 20 years, vaccination is recommended for travelers to endemic or epidemic areas, including both jungle and urban areas. Vaccination is also recommended for microbiology laboratory workers who may be exposed to the yellow fever virus or concentrated preparations of the yellow fever vaccine strain. Theiler and Smith at the Rockefeller Foundation Laboratories in New York first developed an attenuated yellow fever virus (known as 17D) by 176 serial passages of the Asibi strain in mouse-embryo and chicken-tissue cultures in 1937. The current vaccine substrains have all been prepared from this 17D strain and are designated as 17DD and 17D-204. Eight countries manufacture these vaccines under the direction of the WHO. In the US, Sanofi Pasteur produces YF-Vax (strain 17D-204). YF-Vax will be unavailable due to delays in the production process. During that time, Stamaril, manufactured by Sanofi Pasteur in France, will be available at select locations. Patients and providers may visit the CDC webpage at http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/yellow-fever-vaccination-clinics/search to find locations that administer Stamaril.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The mechanism by which the yellow fever vaccine, live provides protection is not completely understood; however, it is presumed to result from an infection of dermal and subcutaneous tissues near the injection site by live, attenuated viruses. During the vaccine-induced infection, a limited quantity of the attenuated viruses replicate and spread. This limited infection exposes viral antigens to the immune system resulting in rapid and specific humoral immunity against the viral structural proteins. The immune response resulting from vaccination with the yellow fever vaccine is predicted to be identical in quality to that induced by the wild-type infection.
 
A low viremia is detected in approximately 50% of vaccinees following immunization, and IgM antibodies are detected between 3 to 7 days post-vaccination, reach a peak by 2 weeks postvaccination, and then decline over several months. The neutralizing antibody response is rapid, detected by 7 days postvaccination. The immunity produced is long-lasting. Limited studies indicate immunity may persist for at least 45 years. However, the World Health Organization (WHO) requires booster immunizations every 10 years to maintain protective immunity.

Pharmacokinetics
  Special Populations
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No gender differences between males and females have been identified under usual circumstances of vaccination. A lower percentage of pregnant females who receive the yellow fever vaccine will seroconvert (see Precautions). In one study, the seroconversion rate in pregnant women (38.6%) was significantly lower than the seroconversion rate for the non-pregnant control group (81.5%).
    Name
    Other
    Description
    HIV-infected Patients
The seroconversion rate following administration of the yellow fever vaccine may be significantly reduced in HIV-positive patients (see Precautions).
  Text
  The yellow fever vaccine, live is administered subcutaneously. Vaccination does not ensure immunity. The World Health Organization (WHO) considers seroconversion as a log10 neutralization index (LNI) of >= 0.7 as determined by a plaque reduction assay. The plaque reduction assay measures the ability of antibodies with activity against yellow fever to reduce plaque formation in tissue culture cells. During clinical studies, 90% of yellow fever vaccine recipients achieved >= 0.7 LNI titers within 10 days of immunization. In a 2001 study conducted in the US, 99.3% of adults administered the yellow fever vaccine (n = 312) seroconverted with a mean LNI titer of 2.21. The duration of protection is undefined; however, studies suggest immunity persists for at least 30—45 years. Re-immunization is recommended every 10 years for those at continued risk of exposure (see Indications).

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Verify immunization status in the state or local immunization information system in addition to the health care electronic record. If this vaccine has been previously given, question the patient, parent, or guardian about any symptoms or signs of an adverse reaction.
Advise individuals on the benefits and risks of the vaccine. Provide a copy of the Vaccine Information Statement (VIS).
Record manufacturer, lot number, administration date, and the name and address of the person administering the vaccine.
Ensure supportive care, including epinephrine 1 mg/mL injection, is readily accessible in the event of a clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction.
Complete a Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) report if adverse events have been identified. The VAERS toll-free information line is 1-800-822-7967 and email address is info@vaers.org.
 
NOTE: An International Certificate of Vaccination must be completed, signed, and validated with the center's stamp when the vaccine is administered. This certificate must be provided to all vaccinees.
The US vaccination certificate is valid for a period of 10 years commencing 10 days after initial vaccination or revaccination.
Instruct travelers to consult the latest published version of Heath Information for International Travel to determine vaccination requirements and regulations. Information may also be obtained from local health departments, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and the World Health Organization (WHO).
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Subcutaneous Administration
      Description
      Reconstitution
Reconstitute using the manufacturer supplied Sodium Chloride Injection USP diluent. The diluent is available as a 0.6 mL vial (for the single dose vaccine vial) and a 3 mL vial (for the 5 dose vaccine vial).
Withdrawal the diluent into a suitably sized syringe and inject into the corresponding vaccine vial.
After allowing the reconstituted vaccine to sit for 1 or 2 minutes, gently swirl until a uniformed suspension is achieved. Do not vigorously shake.
Do not further dilute the reconstituted vaccine.
Administer the reconstituted vaccine within 1 hour of reconstitution. Dispose of any unused reconstituted vaccine.
 
Subcutaneous Injection
Swirl the reconstituted vaccine vial well before withdrawing each dose.
Inject 0.5 mL of the vaccine subcutaneously.
A separate syringe and needle MUST be used for each vaccination.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Administer only via the subcutaneous route; do not inject intravenously, intramuscularly, or intradermally.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The reconstituted yellow fever vaccine is a slightly pink-brown suspension. If the suspension is discolored or particulate matter is present, discard the vaccine vial.
Do not mix yellow fever vaccine with any other vaccine or product in the same syringe.
Establish a system to ensure the vaccine vial and diluent vial are stored together to reduce the risk of administering only the diluent or using a diluent from another vaccine.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mL/dose subcutaneous.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mL/dose subcutaneous.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mL/dose subcutaneous.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mL/dose subcutaneous.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    9 to 11 months: 0.5 mL/dose subcutaneous.
1 to 8 months: Use is contraindicated.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Use is contraindicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
