=== Atracurium — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 48)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Atracurium is a parenteral, intermediate-acting, nondepolarizing, neuromuscular blocking agent (NMBA) indicated as an adjunct to general anesthesia to facilitate tracheal intubation and to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg/dose IV. Onset of intubating conditions is 2 to 2.5 minutes. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bradycardia, hypotension, sinus tachycardia, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema, laryngospasm, pruritus, rash, urticaria, wheezing, acute quadriplegic myopathy syndrome, apnea, dyspnea, hypoxia, muscle paralysis, myopathy, respiratory depression, weakness, conjunctivitis, keratitis, skin erosion, skin ulcer, thrombosis, xerophthalmia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use of atracurium from multiple dose vials containing benzyl alcohol as a preservative is contraindicated in individuals with a known hypersensitivity to benzyl alcohol.

ATRACURIUM

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Tracrium

Indication Specific Dosing

General dosing information:
Guidelines for sustained neuromuscular blockade in critically ill adults recommend against using actual body weight (ABW) and suggest using a consistent weight such as ideal body weight (IBW) or adjusted body weight to calculate neuromuscular blocking agent doses for obese patients. Guidelines for sustained neuromuscular blockade in critically ill children recommend calculating the dose according to IBW.
Use a peripheral nerve stimulator during continuous infusion or repeated dosing to monitor atracurium's effects. Target response is typically 1 to 2 twitches. Incorrect electrode placement, direct stimulation of muscle due to large electrode size, acute illness, capillary leak, and edema may affect an appropriate assessment. Monitor visual and tactile stimulation on muscle movement as well as heart rate, blood pressure, and mechanical ventilator status during administration.
Switch patients who develop tachyphylaxis to atracurium and still require paralysis to another agent.


For muscluar relaxation during non-emergent endotracheal intubation

Intravenous dosage
Adults


0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg/dose IV. Onset of intubating conditions is 2 to 2.5 minutes. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years


0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg/dose IV. Onset of intubating conditions is 2 to 2.5 minutes. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children younger than 2 years


0.3 to 0.4 mg/kg/dose IV. Onset of intubating conditions is 2 to 2.5 minutes. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For neuromuscular blockade during mechanical ventilation in intensive care patients

Intermittent Intravenous dosage
Adults


0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg IV once, followed by 0.08 to 0.1 mg/kg/dose IV every 15 to 25 minutes as needed; adjust dose and interval to patient's twitch response. Generally, the first maintenance dose is required within 20 to 45 minutes after the initial dose. Higher doses up to 0.2 mg/kg/dose permit dosing at longer intervals. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years


0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg IV once, followed by 0.08 to 0.1 mg/kg/dose IV every 15 to 25 minutes as needed; adjust dose and interval to patient's twitch response. Generally, the first maintenance dose is required within 20 to 45 minutes after the initial dose. Maintenance doses may be required with slightly greater frequency in children. Higher doses up to 0.2 mg/kg/dose permit dosing at longer intervals. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children younger than 2 years


0.3 to 0.4 mg/kg IV once, followed by 0.08 to 0.1 mg/kg/dose IV every 15 to 25 minutes as needed; adjust dose and interval to patient's twitch response. Generally, the first maintenance dose is required within 20 to 45 minutes after the initial dose. Maintenance doses may be required with slightly greater frequency in infants. Higher doses up to 0.2 mg/kg/dose permit dosing at longer intervals. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Continuous Intravenous Infusion Dosage
Adults


0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg IV once, followed by 11 to 13 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion; titrate to patient's twitch response. Dosage range: 4.5 to 29.5 mcg/kg/minute. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years


0.3 to 0.6 mg/kg IV once, followed by 11 to 13 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion; titrate to patient's twitch response. Dosage range: 4.5 to 29.5 mcg/kg/minute. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants† and Children younger than 2 years†


0.3 to 0.6 mg/kg IV once, followed by 5 to 28 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion; titrate to patient's twitch response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For neuromuscular blockade during surgery

Intermittent Intravenous dosage
Adults


0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg IV once, followed by 0.08 to 0.1 mg/kg/dose IV every 15 to 25 minutes as needed; adjust dose and interval to patient's twitch response. Generally, the first maintenance dose is required within 20 to 45 minutes after the initial dose. Higher doses up to 0.2 mg/kg/dose permit dosing at longer intervals. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years


0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg IV once, followed by 0.08 to 0.1 mg/kg/dose IV every 15 to 25 minutes as needed; adjust dose and interval to patient's twitch response. Generally, the first maintenance dose is required within 20 to 45 minutes after the initial dose. Maintenance doses may be required with slightly greater frequency in children. Higher doses up to 0.2 mg/kg/dose permit dosing at longer intervals. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children younger than 2 years


0.3 to 0.4 mg/kg IV once, followed by 0.08 to 0.1 mg/kg/dose IV every 15 to 25 minutes as needed; adjust dose and interval to patient's twitch response. Generally, the first maintenance dose is required within 20 to 45 minutes after the initial dose. Maintenance doses may be required with slightly greater frequency in infants. Higher doses up to 0.2 mg/kg/dose permit dosing at longer intervals. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Continuous Intravenous Infusion dosage
Adults


0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg IV once, followed by 9 to 10 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion; titrate to patient's twitch response. Dosage range: 2 to 15 mcg/kg/minute. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years


0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg IV once, followed by 9 to 10 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion; titrate to patient's twitch response. Dosage range: 2 to 15 mcg/kg/minute. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants† and Children younger than 2 years†


0.4 mg/kg IV once, followed by 6 to 14 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion; titrate to patient's twitch response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For the prevention of shaking chills† induced by therapeutic hypothermia after cardiac arrest

Intravenous dosage
Adults


Limited data; 0.5 mg/kg/hour continuous IV infusion. Guidelines suggest neuromuscular blocking agents may be used to manage overt shivering in therapeutic hypothermia.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use of atracurium from multiple dose vials containing benzyl alcohol as a preservative is contraindicated in individuals with a known hypersensitivity to benzyl alcohol. Additionally, use atracurium with caution in individuals who have had previous anaphylactic reactions to other neuromuscular blocking agents. Cross-reactivity between neuromuscular blocking agents, both depolarizing and non-depolarizing, has been reported. Ensure appropriate emergency treatment is available due to the potential severity of hypersensitivity reactions.

neuromuscular blocking agent hypersensitivity


In individuals undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass with induced hypothermia, the rate of atracurium infusion required to maintain adequate surgical relaxation during hypothermia (25 to 28 degrees C) has been shown to be approximately one-half the rate required during normothermia.


asthma, atopy


Use caution when administering atracurium to individuals in whom substantial histamine release would be especially hazardous, such as individuals with any history of severe anaphylactoid reactions (atopy) or asthma. Use a lower initial atracurium dosage and administer slowly or in divided doses in these individuals. Although atracurium is a less potent histamine releaser, the possibility of substantial histamine release in sensitive individuals must be considered. The safety of atracurium has not been established in individuals with bronchial asthma.


cardiovascular disease


Use caution when administering atracurium to individuals in whom substantial histamine release would be especially hazardous, such as individuals with significant cardiovascular disease. Use a lower initial atracurium dosage and administer slowly or in divided doses in these individuals. Although atracurium is a less potent histamine releaser, the possibility of substantial histamine release in sensitive individuals must be considered.


cachexia, carcinomatosis, neuromuscular disease


Nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents have been found to exhibit profound neuromuscular blocking effects in individuals with cachexia or debilitation, neuromuscular disease (e.g., myasthenia gravis and myasthenic syndrome), and carcinomatosis. In these or other individuals in whom potentiation of neuromuscular block or difficulty with reversal may be anticipated, consider an atracurium dosage reduction. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is especially important for assessing neuromuscular block in these individuals. Additionally, individuals with neuromuscular disease may pose airway and/or ventilatory problems requiring special care before, during, and after the use of neuromuscular blocking agents.


acid/base imbalance, electrolyte imbalance


Acid/base imbalance and/or serum electrolyte imbalance may potentiate or cause resistance to the neuromuscular blocking action of atracurium. Since electrolyte imbalance and acid-base imbalance are usually mixed, either enhancement or inhibition may occur. Use peripheral nerve stimulation and monitor the clinical signs of neuromuscular blockade to determine the adequacy of the level of neuromuscular blockage and the need to adjust the atracurium dosage.


burns, cerebral palsy, disuse atrophy, muscle trauma, skeletal muscle denervation


Resistance to nondepolarizing agents, consistent with up-regulation of skeletal muscle acetylcholine receptors, is associated with burns, disuse atrophy, skeletal muscle denervation, and direct muscle trauma. The extent of altered response in individuals with burns depends upon the size of the burn and the time elapsed since the burn injury. Consider the possibility of increased dosage requirements if atracurium is administered to individuals with burns. Receptor up-regulation may also contribute to the resistance to nondepolarizing muscle relaxants which sometimes develops in individuals with cerebral palsy, individuals chronically receiving antiepileptic medications such as carbamazepine or phenytoin, or with chronic exposure to nondepolarizing agents.


malignant hyperthermia


Because atracurium is always used with other agents, and the occurrence of malignant hyperthermia during anesthesia is possible even in the absence of known triggering agents, health care professionals should be familiar with early signs, confirmatory diagnosis, and treatment of malignant hyperthermia prior to the start of any anesthetic. Reports of malignant hyperthermia have been rare in cases in which atracurium has been used.


obesity


Individuals with severe obesity may pose airway and/or ventilatory problems requiring special care before, during, and after the use of neuromuscular blocking agents. Use ideal body weight or adjusted body weight for neuromuscular blocking agent dosing in adults with obesity or morbid obesity (body mass index 30 kg/m2 or more). Guidelines for sustained neuromuscular blockade in critically ill children recommend calculating the dose according to ideal body weight.


neonates, premature neonates


Atracurium multiple dose vials contain benzyl alcohol. Excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol in neonates have been associated with hypotension, metabolic acidosis, and kernicterus. A "gasping syndrome" characterized by CNS depression, metabolic acidosis, and gasping respirations has been associated with benzyl alcohol dosages more than 99 mg/kg/day in neonates. The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which serious adverse reactions may occur is not known. Consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from combined sources. Premature neonates and low-birth-weight neonates may be more likely to develop toxicity.


labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy


There are no adequate, well-controlled studies of atracurium use during human pregnancy. Data indicate some placental transfer. In animal studies, atracurium was associated with teratogenic findings in rabbits at doses up to approximately one-half the human dose, including an increased incidence of certain visceral and skeletal anomalies or variations. It is unknown whether neuromuscular blocking agents administered during labor and vaginal obstetric delivery have immediate or delayed fetal effects or increase the need for neonatal resuscitation. Use may increase the likelihood of forceps delivery. In a study of 26 patients who received atracurium 0.3 mg/kg during caesarean section, no adverse effects attributable to atracurium were observed in neonates. However, neonatal respiratory depression should be considered following cesarean delivery in which a neuromuscular blocking agent is used. Neuromuscular blockade may be potentiated by magnesium salts administered for the management of preeclampsia or eclampsia in pregnancy; dose reduction of atracurium may be necessary.


breast-feeding


Use atracurium with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of atracurium in human milk. Because it is short-acting, highly polar, and poorly absorbed orally, significant transfer into breast milk is unlikely, and clinically meaningful systemic exposure in the breastfed child is not expected.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate, well-controlled studies of atracurium use during human pregnancy. Data indicate some placental transfer. In animal studies, atracurium was associated with teratogenic findings in rabbits at doses up to approximately one-half the human dose, including an increased incidence of certain visceral and skeletal anomalies or variations. It is unknown whether neuromuscular blocking agents administered during labor and vaginal obstetric delivery have immediate or delayed fetal effects or increase the need for neonatal resuscitation. Use may increase the likelihood of forceps delivery. In a study of 26 patients who received atracurium 0.3 mg/kg during caesarean section, no adverse effects attributable to atracurium were observed in neonates. However, neonatal respiratory depression should be considered following cesarean delivery in which a neuromuscular blocking agent is used. Neuromuscular blockade may be potentiated by magnesium salts administered for the management of preeclampsia or eclampsia in pregnancy; dose reduction of atracurium may be necessary.


Interactions

AbobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers when combined with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may lead to prolonged respiratory depression. This action is due to enhanced neural blockade as a result of potential hypokalemia from the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Serum potassium concentrations should be checked and adjusted prior to the administration of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Amide local anesthetics: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Amikacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and systemic aminoglycosides may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Aminoglycosides: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and systemic aminoglycosides may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade. (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations with concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and amphotericin B. Amphotericin B-induced hypokalemia may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations with concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and amphotericin B. Amphotericin B-induced hypokalemia may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Amphotericin B: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations with concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and amphotericin B. Amphotericin B-induced hypokalemia may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade. (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Bacitracin: (Minor) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and systemic bacitracin may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) A higher atracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as galantamine.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade. (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Botulinum Toxins: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and loop diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Calcium Acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Calcium Chloride: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Calcium Gluconate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Calcium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Capreomycin: (Minor) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and capreomycin may prolong neuromuscular blockade. A partial neuromuscular blockade was demonstrated after large intravenous doses of capreomycin.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for a more rapid recovery from neuromuscular blockade than expected during concurrent use of carbamazepine and atracurium. When administering neuromuscular blockade via continuous infusion, infusion rate requirements may be higher. Chronic carbamazepine administration may cause neuromuscular blockade resistance.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Moderate) Nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers when combined with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may lead to prolonged respiratory depression. This action is due to enhanced neural blockade as a result of potential hypokalemia from the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Serum potassium concentrations should be checked and adjusted prior to the administration of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Chromium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and lincosamides with caution. Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and lincosamides may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and polymyxins with extreme caution. Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and polymyxins may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Colistin: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and polymyxins with extreme caution. Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and polymyxins may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and cyclosporine may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
DaxibotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Demeclocycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atracurium and desflurane may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration. During maintenance of desflurane anesthesia, the atracurium dose is likely to be reduced compared to that during nitrous oxide/opioid anesthesia. For endotracheal intubation, do not reduce the dose of atracurium. Anesthetic concentrations of desflurane at equilibrium (administered for 15 or more minutes before testing) reduced the ED95 of atracurium by approximately 50% compared to nitrous oxide/opioid anesthesia.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and quinidine may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Donepezil: (Moderate) A higher atracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as donepezil.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) A higher atracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as donepezil.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Doxapram: (Minor) Doxapram may temporarily mask the residual effects of neuromuscular blockers.
Doxycycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Ester local anesthetics: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and loop diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and fosphenytoin may increase resistance to the neuromuscular blockade action of neuromuscular blockers, resulting in shorter durations of neuromuscular blockade and higher infusion rate requirements. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and loop diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Galantamine: (Moderate) A higher atracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as galantamine.
Gentamicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and systemic aminoglycosides may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers in patients who are receiving gepotidacin. Gepotidacin is a cholinesterase inhibitor which may antagonize the effects of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
IncobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and indapamide may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Irinotecan Liposomal: (Moderate) Irinotecan may antagonize the neuromuscular blocking effects of atracurium due to anticholinesterase activity.
Irinotecan: (Moderate) Irinotecan may antagonize the neuromuscular blocking effects of atracurium due to anticholinesterase activity.
Isoflurane: (Major) Reduce the initial atracurium dose by approximately one-third (i.e., to 0.25 to 0.35 mg/kg) to adjust for the potentiating effects of isoflurane if atracurium is first administered under steady-state of isoflurane. Isoflurane increases the potency of atracurium and prolongs neuromuscular block by approximately 35%. Recommended initial doses of atracurium may be used to facilitate tracheal intubation before administration of isoflurane.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Ketorolac: (Minor) There have been postmarketing reports of a possible interaction between ketorolac and nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers, such as atracurium, that resulted in apnea.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Lincomycin: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and lincosamides with caution. Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and lincosamides may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Lincosamides: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and lincosamides with caution. Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and lincosamides may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and lithium may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and loop diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and magnesium may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Magnesium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and magnesium may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers when combined with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may lead to prolonged respiratory depression. This action is due to enhanced neural blockade as a result of potential hypokalemia from the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Serum potassium concentrations should be checked and adjusted prior to the administration of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade. (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Minocycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Neostigmine: (Moderate) A higher atracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as neostigmine. Intravenous neostigmine is indicated for reversal of the effects of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers, such as atracurium.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) A higher atracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as neostigmine. Intravenous neostigmine is indicated for reversal of the effects of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers, such as atracurium.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade. (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Omadacycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
OnabotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Paromomycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and systemic aminoglycosides may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and phenytoin may increase resistance to the neuromuscular blockade action of neuromuscular blockers, resulting in shorter durations of neuromuscular blockade and higher infusion rate requirements. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
PHYSostigmine: (Moderate) A higher atracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as physostigmine.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atracurium and piperacillin may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Plazomicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and systemic aminoglycosides may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Polymyxin B: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of systemic polymyxin B and neuromuscular blockers due to the risk of respiratory depression. The neurotoxicity of polymyxin B may can result in neuromuscular blockade, especially when given soon after neuromuscular blockers. If signs of respiratory paralysis appear, assist respiration and discontinue drug therapy.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Procainamide: (Moderate) A lower neuromuscular blocker dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant procainamide use due to procainamide effects on reducing acetylcholine release. Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and procainamide may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
pyRIDostigmine: (Moderate) A higher atracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as pyridostigmine. Intravenous pyridostigmine is indicated for reversal of the effects of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers, such as atracurium.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and quinidine may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and quinine. Quinine may enhance the action of neuromuscular blockers. In 1 patient who received a neuromuscular blocker during an operative procedure, subsequent administration of quinine 1,800 mg 3 hours later resulted in respiratory depression.
RimabotulinumtoxinB: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) A higher atracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as rivastigmine.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Sarecycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Reduce the initial atracurium dose by approximately one-third (i.e., to 0.25 to 0.35 mg/kg) to adjust for the potentiating effects of sevoflurane if atracurium is first administered under steady-state of sevoflurane. Recommended initial doses of atracurium may be used to facilitate tracheal intubation before administration of sevoflurane.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and magnesium may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and atracurium. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
Streptomycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and systemic aminoglycosides may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Succinylcholine: (Major) If succinylcholine is used before atracurium, delay atracurium administration until recovery from succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade begins. With succinylcholine as the intubating agent, use an initial atracurium dose of 0.3 to 0.4 mg/kg for adults under balanced anesthesia. Prior administration of succinylcholine quickens the onset and may increase the depth of the neuromuscular block induced by atracurium. The time to maximum block by atracurium is decreased by 2 to 3 minutes with prior use of succinylcholine.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade. (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and indapamide may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Tetracyclines: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) A higher neuromuscular blocker dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant aminophylline use. Aminophylline may antagonize neuromuscular blocking effects, possibly due to phosphodiesterase inhibition. (Moderate) A higher neuromuscular blocker dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant theophylline use. Theophylline may antagonize neuromuscular blocking effects, possibly due to phosphodiesterase inhibition.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Timolol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and beta-blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Tobramycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and systemic aminoglycosides may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and loop diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Limit the period of use of neuromuscular blockers and corticosteroids and only use when the specific advantages of the drugs outweigh the risks for acute myopathy. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids in patients receiving concomitant long-term therapy with neuromuscular blockers. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping therapy may require weeks to years.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Vancomycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and vancomycin may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.


Adverse Reaction
flushing


Dose-dependent skin flushing (5%) was reported in clinical trials with atracurium. Skin flush was reported in 1% of patients receiving atracurium 0.3 mg/kg or less, 8.7% of patients receiving 0.31 to 0.5 mg/kg, and 29.2% of patients receiving 0.6 mg/kg or more.


bradycardia, hypotension, sinus tachycardia


During clinical trials (n = 875), hypotension requiring treatment was reported in 5 patients. Of the 5 patients who required treatment for hypotension, 3 had a history of significant cardiovascular disease. Vital sign (i.e., mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate) changes more than 30% were observed after administration of atracurium in clinical trials. MAP increase (2.1%) was reported in 1.9% of patients receiving atracurium 0.3 mg/kg or less, 2.8% of patients receiving 0.31 to 0.5 mg/kg, and 0% of patients receiving 0.6 mg/kg or more; MAP decrease (1.9%) was reported in 1.1% of patients receiving atracurium 0.3 mg/kg or less, 2.1% of patients receiving 0.31 to 0.5 mg/kg, and 14.3% of patients receiving 0.6 mg/kg or more. Heart rate increase (2.1%) was reported in 1.6% of patients receiving atracurium 0.3 mg/kg or less, 2.8% of patients receiving 0.31 to 0.5 mg/kg, and 4.8% of patients receiving 0.6 mg/kg or more; heart rate decrease (0.6%) was reported in 0.8% of patients receiving atracurium 0.3 mg/kg or less and 0% of patients receiving 0.31 to 0.5 mg/kg or 0.6 mg/kg or more. Sinus tachycardia and bradycardia have been reported in clinical practice with atracurium. Since atracurium has no clinically significant effects on heart rate in the recommended dosage range, it will not counteract the bradycardia produced by many anesthetic agents or vagal stimulation. As a result, bradycardia during anesthesia may be more common with atracurium than with other muscle relaxants.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema, laryngospasm, pruritus, rash, urticaria, wheezing


Although rare, severe anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions to neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs), including atracurium, have been reported; some cases have been fatal. Immediate availability of appropriate emergency treatment for anaphylaxis is advised because of the potential life-threatening severity of a reaction. Rapid injection of atracurium at intubating doses has been associated with histamine release and hypotension. Rare hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., angioedema, bronchospasm, wheezing, flushing, rash, erythema, urticaria, pruritus, hypotension, sinus tachycardia) related to histamine release have been reported after atracurium administration. In clinical trials (n = 875), erythema (0.6%) was reported in 0.6% of patients receiving atracurium 0.3 mg/kg or less, 0.5% of patients receiving 0.31 to 0.5 mg/kg, and 0% of patients receiving 0.6 mg/kg or more, and itching (0.2%) was reported in 0.4% of patients receiving atracurium 0.3 mg/kg or less and 0% of patients receiving 0.31 to 0.5 mg/kg or 0.6 mg/kg or more. Hives (0.1%) were reported in 0.2% of patients receiving atracurium 0.3 mg/kg or less and 0% of patients receiving 0.31 to 0.5 mg/kg or 0.6 mg/kg or more. Wheezing and/or bronchial secretions (0.2%) were reported in 0.2% of patients receiving atracurium 0.3 mg/kg or less, 0.3% of patients receiving 0.31 to 0.5 mg/kg, and 0% of patients receiving 0.6 mg/kg or more. Atracurium was discontinued in 1 patient who required treatment for bronchial secretions; treatment was required for 1 patient who experienced wheezing. Bronchospasm, laryngospasm, rash, and urticaria have been reported in clinical practice with atracurium.


malignant hyperthermia


Malignant hyperthermia can be precipitated by many drugs used in anesthetic practice, including halogenated anesthetics and depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (e.g., succinylcholine). Reports of malignant hyperthermia have been rare in cases where atracurium has been used. In a clinical study of malignant hyperthermia-susceptible patients, atracurium did not trigger this syndrome. However, because of the potentially fatal outcome, consider all patients undergoing anesthesia with administration of neuromuscular blocking agents, such as atracurium, at risk.


acute quadriplegic myopathy syndrome, apnea, dyspnea, hypoxia, muscle paralysis, myopathy, respiratory depression, weakness


Atracurium is used for the purpose of inducing temporary paralysis; however, some of its most serious adverse effects are extensions of its therapeutic use. Careful monitoring of physiologic parameters and response to a peripheral nerve stimulator is recommended during continuous infusions or repeated dosing. Though paralysis may be used to facilitate mechanical ventilation, hypoxia may result from inadequate ventilation and/or a deterioration in pulmonary mechanics associated with prolonged paralysis. Excessive doses or prolonged exposure to neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) can cause skeletal muscle weakness, and patients may consequentially experience prolonged apnea, dyspnea, respiratory depression, and/or profound muscular weakness (muscle paralysis). Prolonged block and dyspnea been observed in clinical practice with atracurium. Muscle weakness in critically ill patients is multifactorial; however, prolonged recovery is most often related to excessive dosing of neuromuscular blockers or use of these agents in patients with hepatic or renal dysfunction. These patients may take hours to days to recover due to long-term accumulation of the drug and its metabolites. Perhaps the most devastating complication of neuromuscular blockade, acute quadriplegic myopathy syndrome (AQMS), presents as acute paresis, myonecrosis with increased creatine phosphokinase (CPK), and abnormal electromyography (EMG). After drug discontinuation, patients present with flaccid paralysis, decreased deep tendon reflexes, and respiratory insufficiency. Sensory function and extraocular movement are preserved, and there are no abnormal cerebrospinal fluid findings. Prolonged rehabilitation as well as chronic ventilatory support are often needed in patients with AQMS. Recovery may take weeks to months. To reduce the risk of prolonged recovery and AQMS, periodic screening of CPK during ongoing neuromuscular blockage may be helpful. Though periodic interruption of therapy is often not feasible and there is no direct evidence showing that it reduces the incidence of AQMS, daily 'drug holidays' may be considered for patients who will tolerate an interruption in therapy.


conjunctivitis, keratitis, skin erosion, skin ulcer, thrombosis, xerophthalmia


Patients receiving atracurium are at risk for developing xerophthalmia, leading to keratitis, conjunctivitis, and corneal abrasion because muscle paralysis inhibits eyelid movement and complete closure. Prophylactic eye care is essential; use artificial tears or ophthalmic ointment at regular intervals during neuromuscular blockade. Additionally, paralyzed patients with prolonged immobility are at risk for skin erosion, skin ulcer (pressure sore), and deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Frequent repositioning, physical therapy, and sequential compression devices (if age appropriate) are indicated. The use of special mattresses may be considered.


anxiety


Awake, paralyzed patient-anxiety and panic may be the most bothersome adverse effect associated with neuromuscular blockade. Neuromuscular blockers, such as atracurium, do not provide sedation or analgesia and should be administered only after unconsciousness has been induced. It is essential that amnesia, sedation, and analgesia are adequately maintained throughout paralyzation. Depth of sedation is difficult to monitor due to lack of movement with paralyzation. Physiologic parameters such as heart rate or blood pressure may be of use; however, there are many confounding influences on these parameters in critically ill patients.


tolerance


Patients who receive neuromuscular blocking agents for a prolonged period may develop tachyphylaxis (i.e., tolerance). Prolonged blockade leads to proliferation of acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction resulting in increased drug requirements. Switch patients who develop tachyphylaxis to atracurium and still require neuromuscular blockade to another agent. Continuous monitoring of neuromuscular transmission with a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended during continuous infusion or repeated dosing. Target response is typically 1 to 2 twitches. Incorrect electrode placement, direct stimulation of muscle due to large electrode size, acute illness, capillary leak, and edema may affect an appropriate assessment. Monitor visual and tactile stimulation on muscle movement as well as heart rate, blood pressure, and mechanical ventilator status during administration.


injection site reaction


Injection site reaction has been observed in clinical practice with atracurium.


seizures


Seizures have been reported in intensive care unit patients after long-term infusion of atracurium to support mechanical ventilation. These patients usually had predisposing causes (such as head trauma, cerebral edema, hypoxic encephalopathy, viral encephalitis, uremia). Laudanosine, a major biologically active metabolite of atracurium without neuromuscular blocking activity, produces cerebral excitatory effects (generalized muscle twitching and seizures) at higher doses when administered to several species of animals. The relationship between CNS excitation and laudanosine concentrations in humans has not been established.


Description

Atracurium is a parenteral, intermediate-acting, nondepolarizing, neuromuscular blocking agent (NMBA) indicated as an adjunct to general anesthesia to facilitate tracheal intubation and to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation. The majority of atracurium is metabolized via spontaneous degradation (Hofmann elimination); the remainder undergoes ester hydrolysis by nonspecific plasma esterases. Because Hofmann elimination occurs independently of enzymes or organ function, there is no prolongation of the effect of atracurium in patients with renal or hepatic failure. These characteristics have made atracurium infusions attractive in the intensive care unit, where multiorgan dysfunction is more common. Rapid injection of atracurium at intubating doses has been associated with histamine release and hypotension.

Mechanism Of Action

Muscle contraction is initiated by an action potential traveling from the central nervous system to the nerve terminal. At the nerve terminal, the action potential causes an influx of calcium, initiating the release of acetylcholine (ACh) into the synaptic cleft. ACh binds to ACh receptors on the muscle fiber's motor end-plate causing a conformational change that briefly opens sodium ion channels. When an adequate number of ACh receptors are activated, membrane potential decreases and voltage-dependent sodium ion channels of adjacent muscle membranes activate, transmitting the action potential throughout the muscle fiber and resulting in muscle contraction. Nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) such as atracurium produce skeletal muscle paralysis by competing with ACh for cholinergic receptor sites at the motor end-plate. Neuromuscular blockade progresses in a predictable order, beginning with muscles associated with fine movements (e.g., eyes, face, and neck), followed by muscles of the limbs, chest, and abdomen and, finally, the diaphragm. Larger doses increase the chance of respiratory depression associated with relaxation of the intercostal muscles and the diaphragm. Muscle tone returns in the reverse order.

Pharmacokinetics

Atracurium is administered intravenously. The dose required to produce 95% suppression of the muscle twitch response (ED95) is about 23 mcg/kg under balanced anesthesia. Peak effect is achieved in 25—30 minutes under balanced anesthesia. If enflurane or isoflurane are used, the potency of atracurium is increased and duration of neuromuscular blockade is increased by 35%. Following doses of 400—500 mcg/kg IV, maximum neuromuscular blockade usually is seen in 3—5 minutes. Recovery of the twitch response is nearly complete 60—70 minutes after injection.
 
Atracurium is distributed into the extracellular space and not into the fat reserves. It is about 82% protein-bound. Atracurium is metabolized by serum esterases and spontaneous Hofmann elimination to produce laudanosine. This metabolite may possess CNS excitatory activity. Elimination is biphasic. In the initial phase, the plasma half-life of atracurium is 2—3 minutes, and in the terminal phase, the half-life is roughly 20 minutes. Elimination of unchanged drug and metabolites is mainly in the urine, but a small amount is secreted in the bile and lost in the feces. From a single dose, 90% is excreted within 7 hours.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Hepatic Impairment

Plasma half-life is not altered substantially by hepatic dysfunction.

Renal Impairment

Plasma half-life is not altered substantially by renal dysfunction.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Accidental administration of neuromuscular blocking agents can be fatal. Store atracurium with the cap and ferrule intact, in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product.
Atracurium is for intravenous administration only. Do not give atracurium by intramuscular administration.


Intravenous Administration


Only experienced clinicians, familiar with the use of neuromuscular blocking drugs, should administer or supervise the use of atracurium. Adequacy of respiration must be assured through assisted or controlled ventilation.
To avoid distress to the individual, administer atracurium only after unconsciousness has been induced. Adequate amnesia, sedation, and analgesia should accompany neuromuscular blockade.
Do not mix atracurium with alkaline solutions (e.g., barbiturate solutions such as thiopental) in the same syringe or administer simultaneously during IV infusion through the same needle or through the same IV line; atracurium has an acidic pH.
 
Intermittent IV Injection
No further dilution necessary.
Administer by direct IV injection.
In individuals with cardiac disease, asthma, or sensitivity to release of histamine or other mediators, use a lower initial atracurium dosage and administer slowly over 1 minute or in divided doses.
 
Continuous IV Infusion
Dilute with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection, or 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to a concentration of 0.2 mg/mL or 0.5 mg/mL; more concentrated solutions have reduced stability.
A peripheral nerve stimulator is recommended to monitor atracurium's effects. Target response is typically 1 to 2 twitches. Incorrect electrode placement, direct stimulation of muscle due to large electrode size, acute illness, capillary leak, and edema may affect an appropriate assessment. Monitor visual and tactile stimulation on muscle movement as well as heart rate, blood pressure, and mechanical ventilator status during administration.
Storage: Diluted solutions may be stored under refrigeration or at room temperature for 24 hours.


Maximum Dosage Limits

Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Dosage must be individualized based on clinical response.

Dosage Forms

Atracurium Besylate 10mg/1mL Solution for injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier