=== Degarelix (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3651)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Degarelix acetate is a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor antagonist with weak histamine-releasing potential and profound testosterone suppression.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 240 mg subcutaneously.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): gynecomastia, hot flashes, impotence (erectile dysfunction), testicular atrophy, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Degarelix is not indicated for use in females, and is contraindicated for use in females of childbearing age. According to the manufacturer degarelix is a pregnancy category X drug and should not be used in women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - Degarelix
  - Firmagon

Dosage Forms
  - Firmagon 240mg Powder for Injection Starter Dose Kit
  - Firmagon 80mg Powder for Injection Maintenance Dose Kit

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        240 mg subcutaneously (given as 2 separate subcutaneous injections of 120 mg); 28 days later, begin maintenance therapy with degarelix 80 mg subcutaneously every 28 days. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided; review drug interactions. Treatment with degarelix resulted in testosterone suppression to castration levels (less than 50 ng/dL) in 97.2% of patients with advanced prostate cancer compared with 96.4% of those who received leuprolide in a randomized, open-label clinical trial; castration levels were reached more quickly in the degarelix arm as well, with 99% achieving testosterone levels of 50 ng/dL or less by day 7 compared to 1% in the leuprolide arm.
    Heading
    For the treatment of advanced prostate cancer

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Degarelix is not indicated for use in females, and is contraindicated for use in females of childbearing age. According to the manufacturer degarelix is a pregnancy category X drug and should not be used in women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. Embryo and fetal death and abortion occurred when degarelix (0.02% of the clinical loading dose) was administered to rabbits during organogenesis. In rats, degarelix (0.036% of the clinical loading dose) given during organogenesis resulted in an increase in post implantation loss and a decrease in the number of live fetuses. If degarelix is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be informed of the potential risk to the fetus.
 
It is unknown if degarelix is excreted in human milk. As a result of the potential for serious adverse events in nursing infants exposed to degarelix, according to the manufacturer, a decision should be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or discontinue the drug.
 
Degarelix is not indicated for use in children.
 
Degarelix is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug or its components. Because degarelix vials contain mannitol, it may be prudent to avoid using in patients with mannitol hypersensitivity.
 
Do not administer degarelix by intravenous administration. Degarelix is for subcutaneous administration only.
 
The use of degarelix in patients with severe hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class C) has not been studied. Degarelix should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic disease. In patients without prostate cancer but with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A and B), a single dose of 1 mg degarelix administered as an IV infusion over 1 hour decreased the exposure of degarelix by 10% and 18%, respectively. As hepatic impairment can lower degarelix exposure, monitor testosterone concentrations on a monthly basis until medical castration is achieved. Once medical castration is achieved, consider an every-other-month testosterone monitoring approach.
 
QTc prolongation has been reported with the use of degarelix. Long-term androgen deprivation causes QT prolongation. As a result of the potential for QTc prolongation, degarelix should be used with caution in patients receiving other medications that cause QT prolongation (see Drug Interactions), patients with known cardiac conduction defects (e.g., history of QT prolongation, AV block, bundle-branch block, cardiac arrhythmias), uncompensated heart failure, and congenital heart disease (i.e. congenital long QT syndrome). Degarelix should also be used with caution in disease states that may increase the risk of QT prolongation such as bradycardia, hypokalemia, and hypomagnesemia.
 
Data are limited on the use of degarelix in patients with renal disease, renal impairment, and renal failure. Degarelix should be used with caution in patients with Cr Cl < 50 ml/min. Some degarelix is excreted unchanged in the urine (20—30%).
 
Treatment with degarelix may cause a decrease in bone mineral density and should be used with caution in patients with osteoporosis.
 
As degarelix suppresses the pituitary-gonadal axis, diagnostic tests for pituitary insufficiency or other pituitary-gonadal function conducted during treatment and after cessation of therapy may be misleading.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Monitor testosterone concentrations monthly until medical castration is achieved in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B) as degarelix exposure is in these patients, which may reduce efficacy. Once medical castration is achieved, consider decreasing the frequency of testosterone monitoring to every other month. Caution is warranted in patients with severe hepatic dysfunction (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure as they have not been studied.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use degarelix with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. If use is necessary, correct any baseline electrolyte abnormalities and consider periodic monitoring of both electrocardiograms and electrolytes.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Degarelix may cause fetal harm and loss of pregnancy when administered during pregnancy, based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action. There are no human data on degarelix use during pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. An increase in early post-implantation loss occurred when degarelix was given to rabbits during early organogenesis at approximately 0.02% of the clinical loading dose based on body surface area (BSA) and to female rats at approximately 0.036% of the loading dose based on BSA. Embryo-fetal lethality and abortion occurred when degarelix was given to rabbits during mid and late organogenesis at approximately 0.05% of the loading dose based on BSA. An increase in the number of minor skeletal abnormalities and variants occurred in the offspring of female rats given degarelix during mid and late organogenesis at approximately 0.36% of the loading dose based on BSA.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others and people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with degarelix. Degarelix may cause male and female infertility, based on findings in animal studies and its mechanism of action.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of degarelix in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production during breast-feeding. Degarelix has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breast-fed child.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Degarelix may cause fetal harm and loss of pregnancy when administered during pregnancy, based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action. There are no human data on degarelix use during pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. An increase in early post-implantation loss occurred when degarelix was given to rabbits during early organogenesis at approximately 0.02% of the clinical loading dose based on body surface area (BSA) and to female rats at approximately 0.036% of the loading dose based on BSA. Embryo-fetal lethality and abortion occurred when degarelix was given to rabbits during mid and late organogenesis at approximately 0.05% of the loading dose based on BSA. An increase in the number of minor skeletal abnormalities and variants occurred in the offspring of female rats given degarelix during mid and late organogenesis at approximately 0.36% of the loading dose based on BSA.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others and people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with degarelix. Degarelix may cause male and female infertility, based on findings in animal studies and its mechanism of action.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with degarelix. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with degarelix. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Anagrelide: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with degarelix due to the risk of QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Androgens: (Major) Concomitant use of androgens with degarelix is relatively contraindicated, as androgens could counteract the therapeutic effect of degarelix.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving apomorphine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of arsenic trioxide and degarelix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation; discontinue or select an alternative drug that does not prolong the QT interval prior to starting arsenic trioxide therapy. If concomitant drug use is unavoidable, frequently monitor electrocardiograms. Torsade de pointes (TdP), QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with degarelix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if degarelix must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid using asenapine in combination with degarelix due to the potential for QT prolongation; coadministration may also reduce the efficacy of degarelix. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Asenapine can also cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with degarelix due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Monitor ECGs if bedaquiline is coadministered with degarelix. Discontinue bedaquiline if evidence of serious ventricular arrhythmia or QTcF interval greater than 500 ms. Bedaquiline prolongs the QT interval and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with brexpiprazole due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Brexpiprazole can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and degarelix increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and degarelix increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with cariprazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Cariprazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with degarelix if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes concentration-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) is also associated with QT prolongation.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with degarelix due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with chlorpromazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Chlorpromazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Cimetidine: (Minor) In the absence of relevant data and as a precaution, drugs that cause hyperprolactinemia, such as cimetidine, should not be administered concomitantly with degarelix, as hyperprolactinemia downregulates the number of pituitary gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptors.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of degarelix with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of degarelix and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with degarelix. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Class IA Antiarrhythmics: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents such as class IA antiarrhythmics. Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine) are associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with clomipramine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Clomipramine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may also prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving clozapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with promethazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Promethazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with promethazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Promethazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with degarelix due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib patients if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Danazol: (Major) Concomitant use of androgens with degarelix is relatively contraindicated, as androgens could counteract the therapeutic effect of degarelix.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents such as dasatinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Desflurane: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Desipramine: (Minor) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like desipramine. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may also prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with deutetrabenazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Deutetrabenazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents such as class IA antiarrhythmics. Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine) are associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Disopyramide: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents such as class IA antiarrhythmics. Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine) are associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and degarelix is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving donepezil as concurrent use may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving donepezil as concurrent use may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Doxepin: (Minor) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like doxepin. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may also prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade des pointes (TdP), the use of degarelix with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should not be used in combination with any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval, such as degarelix. If coadministration cannot be avoided, use extreme caution; initiate droperidol at a low dose and increase the dose as needed to achieve the desired effect. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with degarelix. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with degarelix. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with degarelix. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving eliglustat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and degarelix due to QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with degarelix due to the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
eriBULin: (Major) ECG monitoring is recommended if eribulin is administered with degarelix. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of degarelix and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of escitalopram and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Concomitant use of androgens with degarelix is relatively contraindicated, as androgens could counteract the therapeutic effect of degarelix.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving fingolimod as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like flecainide. Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP); flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs that have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Flotufolastat F 18: (Moderate) Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) may affect prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) expression and alter PSMA imaging studies that utilize radiolabeled flotufolastat. Flare phenomena and variations in ligand uptake have been observed. Short-term ADT has been associated with increased PSMA expression and ligand uptake while long-term therapy has been associated with decreased expression and uptake.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluconazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with fluphenazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Fluphenazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Fluphenazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving fluvoxamine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported during fluvoxamine post-marketing use.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid use of foscarnet with degarelix due to the potential for Both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) as these have been reported during postmarketing use of foscarnet. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving gemifloxacin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Gemifloxacin may also prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving gemtuzumab ozogamicin and degarelix together as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving gilteritinib and degarelix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with degarelix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QTc prolongation has also been reported with the use of degarelix.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving granisetron as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with haloperidol due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Haloperidol can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have also been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and degarelix increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like ibutilide. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration if iloperidone with degarelix due to the risk of QT prolongation; the efficacy of degarelix may also be reduced. Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Additionally, iloperidone can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Imipramine: (Minor) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like imipramine. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may also prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with degarelix due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Isoflurane: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving itraconazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Itraconazole has also been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with degarelix due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with degarelix. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if lapatinib is administered with degarelix. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with degarelix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with degarelix due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor ECG if lofexidine is coadministered with degarelix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with degarelix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Loxapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with loxapine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Loxapine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as degarelix. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving mefloquine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation.
Methadone: (Major) The need to coadminister methadone with drugs known to prolong the QT interval like degarelix should be done with extreme caution and a careful assessment of treatment risks versus benefits. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (greater than 200 mg/day; averaging about 400 mg/day in adults). Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Methyldopa: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with methyldopa due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Methyldopa can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Concomitant use of androgens with degarelix is relatively contraindicated, as androgens could counteract the therapeutic effect of degarelix.
Metoclopramide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with metoclopramide due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Metoclopramide can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midostaurin: (Major) Consider interval assessments of the QT interval by EKG if midostaurin is taken concurrently with degarelix. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of mifepristone and degarelix increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Molindone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with molindone due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Molindone can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of moxifloxacin with degarelix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and degarelix; significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. Sudden death and QT prolongation have been reported in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Nortriptyline: (Minor) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like nortriptyline. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may also prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with olanzapine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Olanzapine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may also be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with olanzapine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Olanzapine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may also be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with olanzapine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Olanzapine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may also be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and degarelix increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with degarelix. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been reported with the use of degarelix. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor ECGs and electrolytes in patients receiving oxaliplatin and degarelix concomitantly; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Oxandrolone: (Major) Concomitant use of androgens with degarelix is relatively contraindicated, as androgens could counteract the therapeutic effect of degarelix.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking degarelix due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of paliperidone with degarelix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP); the efficacy of degarelix may also be reduced. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Additionally, paliperidone can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Panobinostat: (Major) Use of panobinostat with degarelix is not recommended due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, frequently monitor ECGs for QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with panobinostat. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of pazopanib and other drugs that prolong the QT interval like degarelix is not advised. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Pentamidine: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Systemic pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Perphenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with perphenazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Perphenazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Perphenazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with perphenazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Perphenazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Perphenazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid coadminsitration of pimavanserin with degarelix due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of degarelix with pimozide is contraindicated; the efficacy of degarelix may also be reduced. Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Additionally, pimozide can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with degarelix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking degarelix due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving posaconazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Major) Concomitant use of androgens with degarelix is relatively contraindicated, as androgens could counteract the therapeutic effect of degarelix.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Major) Concomitant use of androgens with degarelix is relatively contraindicated, as androgens could counteract the therapeutic effect of degarelix.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Procainamide: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents such as class IA antiarrhythmics. Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine) are associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues, such as degarelix, during intermittent prochlorperazine use; avoid chronic concomitant use. Hyperprolactinemia reduces the number of pituitary GnRH receptors which may reduce degarelix efficacy. Prolactin elevations have been observed with prochlorperazine use and typically resolve rapidly following discontinuation.
Promethazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with promethazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Promethazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with promethazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Promethazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with promethazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Promethazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and degarelix increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Protriptyline: (Minor) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like protriptyline. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may also prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and degarelix increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents such as class IA antiarrhythmics. Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine) are associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of quinine with degarelix due to the risk of QT prolongation. Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ramelteon: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with ramelteon due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Ramelteon can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving ranolazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with degarelix due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with degarelix due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with risperidone due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Risperidone can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP), primarily in the overdose setting. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with degarelix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid administering saquinavir boosted with ritonavir concurrently with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval like degarelix. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with degarelix is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sertraline and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving degarelix due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving solifenacin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with degarelix due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Sorafenib is associated with QTc prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and degarelix increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if sunitinib is administered with degarelix. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Consider ECG and electrolyte monitoring periodically during treatment if tacrolimus is administered with degarelix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Tacrolimus may prolong the QT interval and cause torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Testosterone: (Major) Concomitant use of androgens with degarelix is relatively contraindicated, as androgens could counteract the therapeutic effect of degarelix.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tetrabenazine with degarelix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation; the efficacy of degarelix may also be reduced. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Additionally, tetrabenazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of degarelix with thioridazine is contraindicated; the efficacy of degarelix may also be reduced. Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with agents that may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, and/or cause orthostatic hypotension. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Additionally, thioridazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Thiothixene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with thiothixene due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Thiothixene can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving tolterodine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with verapamil due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Verapamil can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and degarelix increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with trifluoperazine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix; QT prolongation may also occur. Trifluoperazine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog. Additionally, androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Trifluoperazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Trimipramine: (Minor) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like trimipramine. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may also prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with degarelix due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid vemurafenib in patients receiving medications known to prolong the QT interval such as degarelix. Vemurafenib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; the ECG changes occurred within the first month of treatment. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with verapamil due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Verapamil can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and degarelix may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider interventions to minimize the risk of progression to torsades de pointes (TdP), such as ECG monitoring and correcting electrolyte abnormalities, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with degarelix. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving voriconazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and degarelix should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Degarelix can cause QT prolongation. In a single, active-controlled, clinical trial, comparing degarelix to leuprolide, periodic electrocardiograms were performed. Three patients (= 500 milliseconds. The median change in QTc from baseline to end of study was 12.3 milliseconds. QTc prolongation is a known effect of long-term androgen deprivation therapy. Prescribers need to weigh the potential benefits and risks of degarelix use in patients with prolonged QT syndrome or in patients taking other drugs that may prolong the QT interval (see Drug Interactions). Hypertension occurred in 26/409 (6 %) patients.
 
During clinical trials, injection site reaction consisting of pain, erythema, swelling (edema), nodule, or induration occurred after degarelix administration. The local reactions mostly occurred after the first injection; a reaction was reported in 33% of 409 starting doses and 4% of maintenance doses. The local reactions were mild or moderate in intensity; five (=1 %) and constipation (17 of 409 or 4 % of patients) were also noted.
 
Treatment with degarelix may cause a decrease in bone mineral density. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist or antagonist therapy increases the risk of reduced bone mineral density and osteopenia in men as well as women, and may lead to osteoporosis.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    Degarelix can cause QT prolongation. In a single, active-controlled, clinical trial, comparing degarelix to leuprolide, periodic electrocardiograms were performed. Three patients (less than 1 %) randomized to receive degarelix had a QTc of 500 milliseconds or more; the median change in QTc from baseline to end of the study was 12.3 milliseconds. Electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected. Consider periodic monitoring of electrocardiograms and electrolytes.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    erythema, injection site reaction
    General Information
    An injection site reaction occurred after degarelix administration (n = 207) in 35% (grade 3, 2% or less) of patients in a randomized, open-label clinical trial. The most frequently reported adverse reactions at the injection sites were pain (28%), erythema (17%), swelling (6%), induration (4%) and nodule (3%). The local reactions mostly occurred after the first injection and led to few discontinuations (less than 1%). The local reactions were mostly transient (decrease within three days) and mild or moderate in intensity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    gynecomastia, hot flashes, impotence (erectile dysfunction), testicular atrophy
    General Information
    Hot flashes were reported in 26% of patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial. Gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), and testicular atrophy were each reported in at least 1% of patients treated with degarelix in any study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      gynecomastia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      testicular atrophy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported in patients treated with degarelix. Increases in transaminases and GGT occurred in 10% of patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial. In general, hepatic laboratory abnormalities tended to be grade 1 or 2 and were reversible. In an extension study of patients treated with degarelix in this study for a median duration of 43 months, grade 1 or 2 elevations in hepatic transaminases occurred in 47% of patients and grade 3 elevations in 1% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    antibody formation
    General Information
    After treatment with degarelix for one year, antibody formation has been observed in 10% of patients. There is no indication that treatment efficacy or safety is affected by antibody formation.
    Headline
    chills, fever
    General Information
    Fever occurred in 1% to less than 5% of patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial; chills were reported in 5% of these patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Urinary tract infection occurred in 5% of patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain
    General Information
    Back pain (6%) and arthralgia (5%) were reported in patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Asthenia and fatigue were each reported in 1% to less than 5% of patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    Dizziness and headache were each reported in 1% to less than 5% of patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight gain
    General Information
    Weight gain occurred in 9% of patients treated with degarelix in a randomized, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea
    General Information
    Constipation occurred in 5% of patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial. Diarrhea occurred in at least 1% of these patients treated with degarelix in any study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    osteopenia, osteoporosis
    General Information
    Decreased bone density (e.g., osteopenia or osteoporosis) has been reported in men who have had orchiectomy or who have been treated with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist. It can be anticipated that long periods of medical castration in men taking degarelix will also result in decreased bone density.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      osteopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      osteoporosis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, urticaria
    General Information
    Anaphylactoid reactions, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported in postmarketing surveillance in patients who received degarelix. Immediately discontinue therapy in patients who develop a severe hypersensitivity reaction if the injection has not been completed; do not rechallenge these patients with degarelix.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Hypertension occurred in 6% of patients treated with degarelix in a randomized, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperhidrosis, night sweats
    General Information
    Night sweats occurred in 1% to less than 5% of patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial. Additionally, hyperhidrosis was reported in at least 1% of patients treated with degarelix in any study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      night sweats
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nausea
    General Information
    Nausea was reported in 1% to less than 5% of patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    insomnia
    General Information
    Insomnia was reported in 1% to less than 5% of patients treated with degarelix (n = 207) in a randomized, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Degarelix suppresses the pituitary gonadal system. This may cause laboratory test interference for diagnostic tests of the pituitary gonadotropic and gonadal functions conducted during and after treatment.

Description
  Text
  Degarelix acetate is a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor antagonist with weak histamine-releasing potential and profound testosterone suppression. It is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced prostate cancer. The only other GnRH receptor antagonist that has been approved for the treatment of prostate cancer, abarelix, had restricted use due to its increased risk of serious, potentially life-threatening, allergic reactions; it was eventually discontinued due to limited use. After administration, degarelix reversibly binds to the pituitary GnRH receptor resulting in a reduction of gonadotropin and a subsequent drop in testosterone concentration, without an initial increase in serum testosterone or estrogen concentration. No testosterone surge occurred in any of 409 patients that received degarelix whereas 161 of 201 men that received a GnRH agonist alone or in combination with a nonsteroidal antiandrogen had a testosterone surge with treatment initiation. Of 409 men, greater than 95% achieved the target serum testosterone concentration by the third day after degarelix 240 mg subcutaneous as compared with none of the 201 men that received leuprolide 7.5 mg IM. Degarelix offers a treatment option to patients with prostate cancer without the risk of serious histamine-related side effects or the symptoms of clinical flare seen following the administration of GnRH analogs.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Degarelix is a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor antagonist. Degarelix binds reversibly to the anterior pituitary GnRH receptor thereby reducing luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) secretion. This results in an immediate and sustained decrease in the testosterone concentration without the initial stimulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Testosterone suppression to castrate concentrations (0.5 ng/mL) is achieved within 1 to 3 days of administration.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Subcutaneous Route
    Description
    After subcutanous administration, a depot is formed from which degarelix is slowly released into circulation reaching a mean peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of 26.2 ng/mL (CV 83%) within 2 days. The mean AUC is 1,054 ng x day/mL (CV 35%). The pharmacokinetics of degarelix are linear over a dose range of 120 mg to 140 mg; the pharmacokinetic behavior is strongly influenced by its concentration in the injection solution.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    A single dose of degarelix 1 mg administered IV over 1 hour decreased the exposure of degarelix by 10% and 18% in non-prostate cancer patients with mild (Child-Pugh A) and moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment, respectively (n = 16); degarelix has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic studies have not been conducted in patients with renal impairment. A population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from the randomized study demonstrated that there is no significant effect of mild renal impairment (CrCl 50 to 80 mL/min) on either the degarelix concentration or the testosterone concentration. Data on patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 50 mL/min) is limited.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age does not affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of degarelix or testosterone concentrations.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race does not affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of degarelix or testosterone concentrations.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight does not affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of degarelix or testosterone concentrations.
  Text
  Degarelix is administered by subcutaneous injection. It is approximately 90% bound to plasma proteins in vitro. The volume of distribution after IV (greater than 1 liter/kg) or subcutaneous (greater than 1,000 liters) administration indicates that degarelix is distributed throughout total body water. It is metabolized via peptide hydrolysis in the hepatobiliary system. No quantitatively significant metabolites were detected in plasma samples after subcutaneous administration. Degarelix exhibits biphasic elimination, with a median terminal half-life of approximately 53 days due to the very slow release of degarelix from the depot formed at injection sites. The clearance of degarelix is about 9 liters/hour after subcutaneous administration to prostate cancer patients. Approximately 20% to 30% of a given dose is renally excreted, with about 70% to 80% excreted as peptide fragments in the feces.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes or transporters: None

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Subcutaneous Administration
      Description
      For subcutaneous injection in the abdominal region only. Do NOT administer intravenously.
Degarelix should only be administered by a healthcare professional.
 
General reconstitution information:
Gloves should be worn during preparation and administration; aseptic technique should be followed.
Keep vials vertical at all times; do NOT shake the vials.
Administer reconstituted drug within 1 hour (60 minutes) after addition of sterile water for injection (SWI).
 
Reconstitution of 120 mg vial (240 mg dose ONLY):
 
NOTE: To achieve a 240 mg dose, two 120 mg vials of degarelix must be used. Therefore, the following instructions will need to be repeated for each 120 mg vial.
Peel off the seal from the vial adaptor cover; do not touch the vial adaptor.
Press the vial adapter to the vial until the spike punctures the rubber stopper and the adaptor snaps into place. Pull the vial adaptor cover off the vial.
Attach the plunger to the prefilled 3 mL syringe of Sterile Water for Injection (SWI). Do not pull the back stopper (flange) off the syringe. You will only feel light resistance screwing the plunger rod in position.
Unscrew the gray syringe plug attached to the Luer lock adaptor on the syringe; do not pull off the Luer lock adaptor.
Attach the prefilled syringe with SWI onto the vial adaptor; be careful not to over-twist the syringe.
Inject the entire volume of SWI from the prefilled syringe slowly into a vial containing 120 mg of degarelix. In order to maintain sterility, do not remove the syringe from the vial.
Keep the vial in an upright position and swirl gently until the liquid looks clear and without undissolved powder. Avoid shaking to prevent foam formation. The vial can be tilted slightly to dissolve powder. The reconstitution process may take up to 15 minutes, but usually takes a few minutes.
Turn the vial upside down and withdraw 3 ml (40 mg/mL); remove any air bubbles.
Remove the syringe from the vial adapter and attach the needle provided in the kit.
Repeat the constitution procedure with a new vial, needle, and syringe for the second 120 mg dose (total dose = 240 mg)
 
Reconstitution of 80 mg vial:
Peel off the seal from the vial adaptor cover; do not touch the vial adaptor.
Press the vial adapter to the vial until the spike punctures the rubber stopper and the adaptor snaps into place. Pull the vial adaptor cover off the vial.
Attach the plunger to the prefilled 4.2 mL syringe of Sterile Water for Injection (SWI). Do not pull the back stopper (flange) off the syringe. You will only feel light resistance screwing the plunger rod in position.
Unscrew the gray syringe plug attached to the Luer lock adaptor on the syringe; do not pull off the Luer lock adaptor.
Attach the prefilled syringe with SWI onto the vial adaptor; be careful not to over-twist the syringe.
Inject the entire volume of SWI from the prefilled syringe slowly into vial containing 80 mg of degarelix. In order to maintain sterility, do not remove the syringe from the vial.
Keep the vial in an upright position and swirl gently until the liquid looks clear and without undissolved powder. Avoid shaking to prevent foam formation. The vial can be tilted slightly to dissolve powder. The reconstitution process may take up to 15 minutes, but usually takes a few minutes.
Turn the vial upside down and withdraw 4 ml (20 mg/mL); remove any air bubbles
Remove the syringe from the vial adapter and attach the needle provided in the kit.
 
Subcutaneous injection:
Degarelix is administered in the abdominal region in an area not exposed to pressure (e.g. not close to belt area, waistband, close to ribs); injection site should vary.
Disinfect the area to be injected with an alcohol pad.
Move the needle shield away from the needle and carefully remove the needle cover.
Grasp the skin of abdomen, elevate the subcutaneous tissue, and insert the needle deeply at a 45 degree angle, all the way to the needle hub.
Aspirate prior to injection to ensure a blood vessel has not been penetrated. If blood appears in the syringe, discontinue the procedure and discard the syringe and the needle. The reconstituted product can no longer be used and a new dose must be prepared.
Slowly inject the dose subcutaneously over 30 seconds. When giving the loading dose, which consists of two 120 mg doses, the second dose should be injected subcutaneously at a different site in the abdomen.
Remove the needle, and then release the skin. Do not rub the injection site after removing the needle.
To lock the needle into the shield, position the needle shield about 45 degrees to a flat surface. Press down with a firm, quick motion until a click is heard, and confirm that the needle is fully engaged under the lock.
    Name
    Injectable Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    240 mg subcutaneously.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    240 mg subcutaneously.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustment in patients with hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that dosage adjustments are not necessary.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustment in patients with renal impairment are not available; it appears that dosage adjustments are not necessary.
