=== Azelaic Acid/Copper/Folic Acid/Nicotinamide/Pyridoxine/Zinc — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3867)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 4 tablets/day PO.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Folic Acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient.

AZELAIC ACID/COPPER/FOLIC ACID/NICOTINAMIDE/PYRIDOXINE/ZINC

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

NicAzel, VP-ZEL

Indication Specific Dosing

For nutritional supplementation in patients with acne vulgaris†, acne rosacea†, or other inflammatory skin disorders† who are deficient in or at risk of deficiency in one or more of the components

Oral dosage
Adults, Adolescents, and Children >= 6 years


1—2 tablets PO once or twice daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Folic Acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient. Folic acid above 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive.

pregnancy


Specific recommendations for use of azelaic acid; copper; folic acid; nicotinamide; pyridoxine; zinc during pregnancy are not available. Use this supplement with caution in pregnant individuals. Embryo-fetal toxicity was noted when azelaic acid was administered orally during organogenesis at doses 162, 19, and 65 times the maximum recommended human dose in rats, rabbits, and monkeys, respectively. No malformations were observed.  


breast-feeding


Use azelaic acid; copper; folic acid; nicotinamide; pyridoxine; zinc with caution during breast-feeding. Specific recommendations for use of this supplement during lactation are not available.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Specific recommendations for use of azelaic acid; copper; folic acid; nicotinamide; pyridoxine; zinc during pregnancy are not available. Use this supplement with caution in pregnant individuals. Embryo-fetal toxicity was noted when azelaic acid was administered orally during organogenesis at doses 162, 19, and 65 times the maximum recommended human dose in rats, rabbits, and monkeys, respectively. No malformations were observed.  


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Azelaic Acid; Copper; Folic Acid; Nicotinamide; Pyridoxine; Zinc products.

Adverse Reaction
anaphylactoid reactions


In rare instances, allergic or anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with folic acid use. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity during therapy with azelaic acid; cooper; folic acid; nicotinamide; pyridoxine; zinc.


Description

NOTE: In the US dietary supplements are marketed under the Dietary Supplement and Health Education Act of 1994 (DSHEA). Consequently, scientific data supporting claimed benefit(s) are not always available as they are for traditional pharmaceuticals since dietary supplements are not regulated as drugs. Rigid quality control standards are not required, and substantial variability can occur in both the potency and the purity of these products. Monographs for dietary supplements are included in CP when reliable clinical data are available. The information presented below is condensed from the best clinical data we could find.
 
Azelaic acid; copper; folic acid; nicotinamide; pyridoxine; zinc is a nutritional supplement for patients with acne vulgaris, rosacea, or other inflammatory skin disorders who are deficient in or at risk of deficiency in one or more of the components of the product. The efficacy of adding azelaic acid; copper; folic acid; nicotinamide; pyridoxine; zinc to an existing regimen for inflammatory acne vulgaris was evaluated in an open-label prospective study. After 8 weeks, 88% of patients (n= 235) reported a visible reduction in inflammatory lesions and 81% of patients rated their appearance as much or moderately better compared with baseline. The use of this product has not been evaluated by the FDA and is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.

Mechanism Of Action


Azelaic acid: The efficacy of azelaic acid in acne vulgaris is due to an antimicrobial effect. The antimicrobial effects of azelaic acid involves inhibition of synthesis of microbial cellular proteins; the exact mechanism of action is unknown. Azelaic acid possesses bacteriostatic properties against a variety of aerobic microorganisms, especially Staphylococcus epidermidis and Propionibacterium acnes which are known to be elevated in acne-bearing skin; at high concentrations, azelaic acid is bactericidal against S. epidermidis and P. acnes. Azelaic acid may also cause normalization of keratinization resulting in a reduction in noninflamed acne lesions.
Copper: Copper is an essential trace element. Rarely, copper deficiency has been induced by supplemental zinc therapy.
Folic Acid: Folic acid, a biochemically inactive compound, is the precursor for tetrahydrofolic acid and methyltetrahydrofolate. Tetrahydrofolic acid, methyltetrahydrofolate, and other folic acid congeners are required cofactors for the synthesis of purine and thymidylate nucleic acids. Folic acid deficiency has been demonstrated in some cutaneous disorders.
Nicotinamide: Nicotinamide possesses antiinflamatory properties that may be benficial in patients with acne vulgaris. Nicotinamide suppresses antigen-induced lymphocytic transformation and inhibition of 3', 5'-cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase and blocks the inflammatory actions of iodides known to precipitate or exacerbate acne.
Pyridoxine: Vitamin B6 is composed of pyridoxine, pyridoxal, and pyridoxamine, and food usually contains all three forms. Pyridoxine is converted in erythrocytes to its active moiety, pyridoxal phosphate (requiring riboflavin for the conversion), while pyridoxamine is converted into pyridoxamine phosphate. These active forms act as coenzymes for no fewer than 60 metabolic processes including the metabolism of fat, protein, and carbohydrate. Their role in protein metabolism includes decarboxylation of amino acids, conversion of tryptophan to niacin or serotonin, deamination, and transamination of amino acids. In carbohydrate metabolism, it is necessary for the conversion of glycogen to glucose-1-phosphate. Pyridoxine is essential for synthesis of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the CNS and synthesis of heme.
Zinc: In patients with acne vulgaris, zinc has been shown to inhibit the inflammatory polymorphonuclear leukocyte chemotaxis. Zinc has also demonstrated an inhibitory effect on the lipase of the three Propionibacterium species found in human pilosebaceous follicles. Patients with acne have been shown to have significantly lower serum zinc levels than matched healthy controls.


Pharmacokinetics

Azelaic Acid; copper; folic Acid; nicotinamide; pyridoxine; zinc is administered orally and is intended for use as a nutritional supplement.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Azelaic acid: Orally administered azelaic acid has a relatively short half-life (45 minutes), and it is mainly excreted unchanged in the urine.
Copper: Copper is an essential trace element. The majority of body copper content is found in the skeleton and muscles; the liver maintains plasma copper concentrations. Copper homeostasis is regulated by excretion into the gastrointestinal tract; greater excretion is the result of increased absorption.
Folic acid: Following oral administration, folic acid is rapidly absorbed from the small intestine. Because dietary folate is primarily in the polyglutamyl form, it must be converted to the monoglutamate form by intestinal conjugase enzymes prior to absorption. The monoglutamate form is then reduced and methylated to methyltetrahydrofolate by dihydrofolate reductase during transport across the intestinal mucosa. Absorption of dietary folic acid is impaired in the presence of malabsorption syndromes; however, the absorption of synthetic, commercially available folic acid is unaffected. The peak activity of this vitamin occurs within 1 hour.
Nicotinamide: Nicotinamide is well-absorbed by the oral route.
Pyridoxine: Absorption of pyridoxine is rapid following oral administration. The extent of absorption is decreased following gastric resection or in patients with malabsorption syndromes.
Zinc: Following oral administration, zinc is absorbed by diffusion and a carrier-mediated process regulated by metallothionein. The amount absorbed is controlled by the level of zinc in the diet and the presence of substances that interfere with zinc absorption. Zinc absorption is promoted by a diet rich in protein due to the formation of zinc-amino acid chelates which present zinc in a more absorbable form. High levels of zinc decrease the absorption of copper by displacing copper from metallothionein.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


May be taken with or without food.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

4 tablets/day PO.

Geriatric

4 tablets/day PO.

Adolescents

4 tablets/day PO.

Children

>= 6 years: 4 tablets/day PO.
< 6 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier