=== Fexinidazole (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5346)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Fexinidazole is an oral nitroimidazole antiprotozoal drug indicated for the treatment of both first-stage (hemolymphatic) and second-stage (meningoencephalitic) human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), also known as sleeping sickness, due to Trypanosoma brucei gambiense in patients 6 years of age and...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1,800 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity, hypertension, palpitations, qt prolongation, agitation, anxiety, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, nightmares, paresthesias, psychosis, suicidal ideation, tremor, hypersalivation, asthenia, chest pain (unspecified), fatigue, hyperkalemia, hypoalbuminemia, hypocalcemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Fexinidazole is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to other nitroimidazole derivatives (e.g., metronidazole, tinidazole). psychiatric disorder...

Dosage Forms
  - Fexinidazole 600mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1,800 mg PO once daily for 4 days, then 1,200 mg PO once daily for 6 days. Due to decreased efficacy observed in patients with severe second-stage disease, as defined by cerebrospinal fluid WBC more than 100 cells/microliter at baseline, only use fexinidazole in these patients when no other treatment options are available.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing 35 kg or more
        Dosage Description
        1,800 mg PO once daily for 4 days, then 1,200 mg PO once daily for 6 days. Due to decreased efficacy observed in patients with severe second-stage disease, as defined by cerebrospinal fluid WBC more than 100 cells/microliter at baseline, only use fexinidazole in these patients when no other treatment options are available.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing 20 to 34 kg
        Dosage Description
        1,200 mg PO once daily for 4 days, then 600 mg PO once daily for 6 days. Due to decreased efficacy observed in patients with severe second-stage disease, as defined by cerebrospinal fluid WBC more than 100 cells/microliter at baseline, only use fexinidazole in these patients when no other treatment options are available.
    Heading
    For the treatment of first-stage (hemolymphatic) and second-stage (meningoencephalitic) African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) due to T. brucei gambiense

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Fexinidazole is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to other nitroimidazole derivatives (e.g., metronidazole, tinidazole).
    Headline
    psychiatric disorder
    General Information
    Consider alternative therapy or increased monitoring, including hospitalization, in individuals with a current or prior history of a psychiatric disorder. Fexinidazole is associated with neuropsychiatric adverse events. Advise individuals of the risk of neuropsychiatric adverse reactions during treatment with fexinidazole.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, family history of sudden cardiac death, females, geriatric, heart failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes
    General Information
    Avoid use of fexinidazole in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Avoid fexinidazole in individuals with QTcF more than 470 milliseconds. Additional risk factors may include a history of torsade de pointes, cardiac arrhythmias, uncompensated heart failure, or family history of sudden cardiac death.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, Cockayne syndrome, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Fexinidazole is contraindicated in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class C) or Cockayne syndrome. Cases of severe, irreversible hepatotoxicity and acute hepatic failure, including fatal outcomes with very rapid onset, have been reported in individuals after initiation of systemic metronidazole, another nitroimidazole agent structurally related to fexinidazole, in individuals with Cockayne syndrome. Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B) increases fexinidazole and its active metabolite M1 exposures, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Evaluate liver-related laboratory tests at baseline and during fexinidazole treatment.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Avoid the use of fexinidazole in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2). The pharmacokinetics of fexinidazole in individuals with severe renal impairment is unknown.
    Headline
    ethanol ingestion
    General Information
    Advise individuals receiving fexinidazole to avoid ethanol ingestion or consumption of alcohol-containing products during treatment and for at least 48 hours after completing therapy due to the risk of a disulfiram-like reaction, which may include flushing, rash, weakness, abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, and headache.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration if they feel tired or dizzy while taking fexinidazole. Fexinidazole can cause dizziness, fatigue, asthenia, and drowsiness.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Clinical trial data on fexinidazole use during pregnancy are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriage. Untreated human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) due to Trypanosoma brucei gambiense during pregnancy is associated with adverse outcomes, and disease progression may occur. Pregnant individuals should be treated to prevent vertical transmission. When determining the timing of treatment, weigh the benefits of fexinidazole against the potential fetal risk. In animal studies, oral fexinidazole administered to pregnant rats during organogenesis at exposures comparable to the clinical dose (based on AUC) did not affect prenatal development. However, embryo-fetal developmental effects occurred in rats and rabbits only at maternally toxic doses. At these doses, systemic exposure to fexinidazole and its metabolites was approximately 2 times the clinical exposure in rats and less than 0.02 times the clinical exposure in rabbits. In a prenatal and postnatal development study, oral fexinidazole given to rats during organogenesis through lactation resulted in reduced body weights in first-generation offspring at approximately 1.03 times the clinical exposure (based on AUC).
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use fexinidazole with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of fexinidazole in human milk or its effects on milk production. Fexinidazole is present in rat milk. There are no reports of adverse effects to the breastfed child associated with fexinidazole exposure through milk based on a limited number of reported cases. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Clinical trial data on fexinidazole use during pregnancy are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriage. Untreated human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) due to Trypanosoma brucei gambiense during pregnancy is associated with adverse outcomes, and disease progression may occur. Pregnant individuals should be treated to prevent vertical transmission. When determining the timing of treatment, weigh the benefits of fexinidazole against the potential fetal risk. In animal studies, oral fexinidazole administered to pregnant rats during organogenesis at exposures comparable to the clinical dose (based on AUC) did not affect prenatal development. However, embryo-fetal developmental effects occurred in rats and rabbits only at maternally toxic doses. At these doses, systemic exposure to fexinidazole and its metabolites was approximately 2 times the clinical exposure in rats and less than 0.02 times the clinical exposure in rabbits. In a prenatal and postnatal development study, oral fexinidazole given to rats during organogenesis through lactation resulted in reduced body weights in first-generation offspring at approximately 1.03 times the clinical exposure (based on AUC).
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use fexinidazole with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of fexinidazole in human milk or its effects on milk production. Fexinidazole is present in rat milk. There are no reports of adverse effects to the breastfed child associated with fexinidazole exposure through milk based on a limited number of reported cases. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A and UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A and UGT inducer.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in zidovudine efficacy during concomitant use of zidovudine and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease zidovudine exposure. Zidovudine is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Abemaciclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fexinidazole with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Acebutolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of dihydrocodeine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of dihydrocodeine as needed. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of dihydrocodeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with fexinidazole can decrease dihydrocodeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased dihydromorphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acoramidis: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and adagrasib; concomitant use may reduce fexinidazole efficacy and increase the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Adefovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adefovir and fexinidazole and monitor for an increase in adefovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Fexinidazole may inhibit adefovir elimination and increase adefovir exposure.
Aficamten: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and fexinidazole; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If fexinidazole is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inducer like fexinidazole with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Alosetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and fexinidazole unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and fexinidazole due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with fexinidazole, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease the exposure and efficacy of both drugs. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulbactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulbactam exposure. Sulbactam is an OAT1 substrate and fexinidazole is an OAT1 inhibitor.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and apalutamide. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Apomorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and aprepitant and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and aprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration could increase exposure to carisoprodol and decrease exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposure in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and atazanavir due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Monitor for decreased efficacy if concomitant use is necessary. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; atazanavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and atazanavir due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Monitor for decreased efficacy if concomitant use is necessary. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; atazanavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and cobicistat due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atenolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Atogepant: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and fexinidazole when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with fexinidazole is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure and peak of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with fexinidazole if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aztreonam; Avibactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in avibactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avibactam exposure. Avibactam is an OAT1/3 substrate and fexinidazole is a OAT1/3 inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Baricitinib: (Major) Coadministration of baricitinib with fexinidazole is not recommended due to the potential for increased baricitinib exposure. Baricitinib is an OAT3 substrate and fexinidazole is a strong OAT3 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of another strong OAT3 inhibitor increased baricitinib exposure by 2-fold.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in baxdrostat efficacy during concomitant use with fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease baxdrostat exposure. Baxdrostat is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inducer.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bedaquiline with fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased bedaquiline exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Bedaquiline is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased bedaquiline exposure by approximately 20%. The overall exposure and peak of the primary metabolite of bedaquiline (M2) were increased by 70% and 80%, respectively.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Monitor for anemia and hypoxia if concomitant use of fexinidazole with belzutifan is necessary due to increased plasma exposure of belzutifan which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of belzutifan as recommended if anemia or hypoxia occur. Belzutifan is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if fexinidazole treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Concomitant use of fexinidazole may increase bendamustine exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions (e.g., myelosuppression, infection, hepatotoxicity). Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and berotralstat and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Beta-blockers (without QT/QTc prolongation): (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Betaxolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in bexagliflozin efficacy during concomitant use of bexagliflozin and fexinidazole and adjust therapy as appropriate. Concomitant use may decrease bexagliflozin exposure. Bexagliflozin is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in bictegravir efficacy during concomitant use of bictegravir and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease bictegravir exposure. Bictegravir is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased lenacapavir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Fexinidazole exposure may also decrease. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with fexinidazole is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day fexinidazole is initiated, a supplemental lenacapavir subcutaneous dose of 463.5 mg should be administered. If fexinidazole is continued beyond 6 months, this supplemental dose should be repeated every 6 months. After fexinidazole discontinuation, resume the standard 6-month lenacapavir injection schedule. Recommendations are not available for individuals already on fexinidazole at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 56%. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in bictegravir efficacy during concomitant use of bictegravir and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease bictegravir exposure. Bictegravir is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bisoprolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with fexinidazole due to decreased plasma exposure to brigatinib which may result in decreased efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, after 7 days of concomitant treatment with fexinidazole, increase the dose of brigatinib as tolerated in 30 mg increments to a maximum of twice the original brigatinib dose. Brigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 50%.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease buprenorphine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease buprenorphine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 inducer.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 inducer.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buspirone if fexinidazole is added to a patient on a stable dosage of buspirone; a dose increase of buspirone may be needed to maintain anxiolytic activity. Buspirone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cabotegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in cabotegravir efficacy during concomitant use of cabotegravir and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease cabotegravir exposure. Cabotegravir is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of rilpivirine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease rilpivirine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in cabotegravir efficacy during concomitant use of cabotegravir and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease cabotegravir exposure. Cabotegravir is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Cabozantinib: (Major) For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, avoid the concomitant use of cabozantinib and fexinidazole. If use is necessary, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg (e.g., 60 mg/day to 80 mg/day; 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day) up to a maximum daily dose of 80 mg. Concomitant use may reduce cabozantinib exposure. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Canagliflozin: (Major) Increase the canagliflozin dose to 200 mg/day in persons who are tolerating canagliflozin 100 mg/day and receiving concomitant fexinidazole. The canagliflozin dose may be further increased to 300 mg/day for persons with an eGFR of 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more who require additional glycemic control; consider adding another antihyperglycemic agent for persons with an eGFR less than 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 who require additional glycemic control. Canagliflozin is an UGT1A9 and UGT2B4 substrate, and fexinidazole is an UGT inducer. Coadministration with a nonselective inducer of several UGT enzymes decreased canagliflozin exposure by 51%. This decrease in exposure may decrease canagliflozin efficacy.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Increase the canagliflozin dose to 200 mg/day in persons who are tolerating canagliflozin 100 mg/day and receiving concomitant fexinidazole. The canagliflozin dose may be further increased to 300 mg/day for persons with an eGFR of 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more who require additional glycemic control; consider adding another antihyperglycemic agent for persons with an eGFR less than 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 who require additional glycemic control. Canagliflozin is an UGT1A9 and UGT2B4 substrate, and fexinidazole is an UGT inducer. Coadministration with a nonselective inducer of several UGT enzymes decreased canagliflozin exposure by 51%. This decrease in exposure may decrease canagliflozin efficacy. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with fexinidazole due to decreased capivasertib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the capivasertib overall exposure by 60%.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and carbamazepine due to the risk for increased exposure to fexinidazole's active metabolites which may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. The exposure of carbamazepine may also be decreased. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inducer.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration could increase exposure to carisoprodol and decrease exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposure in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Carteolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Carvedilol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Cefaclor: (Moderate) Monitor for cefaclor-related adverse reactions, such as nausea, diarrhea, or abdominal pain, if coadministered with fexinidazole. Concomitant use may increase cefaclor exposure. Cefaclor is an OAT1/3 substrate and fexinidazole is an OAT1/3 inhibitor.
cefTAZidime; Avibactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in avibactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avibactam exposure. Avibactam is an OAT1/3 substrate and fexinidazole is a OAT1/3 inhibitor.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as ceritinib, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. Concomitant use may also limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites, reducing its efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and chloramphenicol and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cilostazol: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with fexinidazole and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP2C19 substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP2C19 inhibitor did not significantly affect the metabolism of cilostazol, but the systemic exposure to 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol was increased by 69%.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Additionally, limit the dose of citalopram to 20 mg/day if coadministered with fexinidazole as concurrent use may increase citalopram exposure, further increasing the risk of QT prolongation. Citalopram is a sensitive CYP2C19 substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease the exposure and efficacy of both drugs. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clobazam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary; a clobazam dosage reduction may be required based on response. Concomitant use may increase clobazam exposure. Clobazam is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clomipramine-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; a clomipramine dose reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase clomipramine exposure; clomipramine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
cloNIDine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as clonidine, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced clopidogrel efficacy during concomitant use of fexinidazole. Clopidogrel is primarily metabolized to its active metabolite by CYP2C19; fexinidazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Major) Concomitant use of clozapine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may alter clozapine exposure resulting in increased adverse effects or decreased efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Monitor for decreased clozapine efficacy or increased adverse reactions and adjust the clozapine dose as necessary. Clozapine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor and CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and cobicistat due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobimetinib with fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease cobimetinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Based on simulations, cobimetinib exposure would decrease by 73% when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and conivaptan and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Crinecerfont: (Major) Increase the crinecerfont evening dose 2-fold if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use is expected to decrease crinecerfont exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Crinecerfont is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as crizotinib, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. Concomitant use may also limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites, reducing its efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and cyclosporine. Concurrent use may decrease the exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Closely monitor for a reduction in dapsone efficacy and signs of hemolytic anemia if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Dapsone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of dapsone and increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine (a metabolite associated with hemolysis).
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and fexinidazole. Coadministration may decrease daridorexant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased daridorexant overall exposure by over 50%.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and darunavir due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and cobicistat due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and darunavir due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and cobicistat due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and darunavir due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Dasatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and dasatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in deferasirox efficacy during concomitant use of deferasirox and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease deferasirox exposure. Deferasirox is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Deflazacort: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of deflazacort and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may significantly decrease concentrations of 21-desDFZ , the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in loss of efficacy. Deflazacort is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Degarelix: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desipramine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of fexinidazole and tricyclic antidepressants, such as desipramine, although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and deutetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with deutetrabenazine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 inducer.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, or a decrease in diazepam efficacy if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may alter diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Digoxin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as digoxin, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as diltiazem, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. Additionally, monitor for decreased efficacy of both drugs if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease the exposure of both drugs. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; diltiazem is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Disulfiram: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fexinidazole with disulfiram or in patients who have taken disulfiram within the last 2 weeks. Although not reported with fexinidazole, psychotic reactions have been reported in patients concurrently taking disulfiram and other nitroimidazole agents.
Dofetilide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dofetilide and fexinidazole is contraindicated. This combination may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk of dofetilide-related adverse effects including drug-induced QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide is an OCT2 and CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is an OCT2 and CYP3A inhibitor.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A and UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A and UGT inducer.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A and UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A and UGT inducer.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of rilpivirine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease rilpivirine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A and UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A and UGT inducer.
Donepezil: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Doravirine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and fexinidazole may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and fexinidazole may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and fexinidazole may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased dordaviprone exposure and efficacy and additive risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in doxepin-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase doxepin exposure; doxepin is primarily metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 and fexinidazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with fexinidazole due to decreased doxorubicin plasma concentrations. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Inducers of CYP3A may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with fexinidazole due to decreased doxorubicin plasma concentrations. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Inducers of CYP3A may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in dronabinol efficacy if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites, reducing its efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased duloxetine-related adverse effects if coadministered with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may result in increased duloxetine exposure. Duloxetine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of duvelisib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease the exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of duvelisib on day 12 of coadministration from 25 mg PO twice daily to 40 mg PO twice daily or from 15 mg PO twice daily to 25 mg PO twice daily and monitor for decreased efficacy of both drugs. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of duvelisib with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased duvelisib exposure by 35%.
Efavirenz: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and efavirenz increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased efavirenz efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of efavirenz leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Efavirenz is a CYP2B6 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and efavirenz increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased efavirenz efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of efavirenz leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Efavirenz is a CYP2B6 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and efavirenz increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased efavirenz efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of efavirenz leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Efavirenz is a CYP2B6 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 inducer.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of elacestrant and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased elacestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced elacestrant overall exposure by 55% to 73%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of grazoprevir and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease grazoprevir exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Grazoprevir is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Major) Coadministration of elbasvir with fexinidazole is not recommended due to decreased exposure of elbasvir, resulting in decreased virologic response. Elbasvir is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Eliglustat: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and eliglustat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and cobicistat due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Coadministration of elvitegravir with fexinidazole may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of elvitegravir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and cobicistat due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Coadministration of elvitegravir with fexinidazole may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of elvitegravir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of rilpivirine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease rilpivirine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of rilpivirine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease rilpivirine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole with encorafenib due to the risk for increased fexinidazole exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and ensitrelvir and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of entrectinib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased entrectinib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce the entrectinib overall exposure by 56%.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and enzalutamide. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Erdafitinib: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and fexinidazole is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with fexinidazole if possible due to the risk of decreased erlotinib efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of erlotinib in 50 mg increments at 2-week intervals as tolerated (maximum dose, 450 mg). Erlotinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of escitalopram and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Esmolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for esomeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase esomeprazole exposure. Esomeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol-containing beverages and other forms of alcohol (including medicines with significant alcohol content) during and up to 2 days after therapy with fexinidazole. A disulfiram-like reaction may occur if used together. (Moderate) Although the injection of alcohol used for therapeutic procedures is not expected to produce significant systemic effects of ethanol, use caution with concomitant use of fexinidazole. Disulfiram-like side effects, including nausea, vomiting, tachycardia, headache, flushing, and abdominal cramps, may occur.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in etravirine-related adverse reactions or a decrease in efficacy if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may alter the exposure of etravirine; the net effect is unknown. Although specific recommendations are unavailable for use with fexinidazole, coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is not recommended. Etravirine is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor and CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor increased etravirine exposure by 1.4-fold and concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased etravirine exposure by approximately 35%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be increased. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with CYP3A inducers may increase the metabolism of everolimus and decrease everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of simvastatin and fexinidazole and monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration is necessary. Coadministration may increase the exposure of simvastatin. Simvastatin is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and fedratinib as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fedratinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of fedratinib with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the overall exposure of fedratinib by 47%.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Consider an increase in fenfluramine dosage if coadministered with fexinidazole; do not exceed the maximum daily dosage. Concurrent use may decrease fenfluramine plasma concentrations, which may lower its efficacy. Fenfluramine is a CYP2B6 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 inducer.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of fexinidazole is necessary. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like fexinidazole with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fezolinetant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fezolinetant and fexinidazole is contraindicated due to the risk of increased fezolinetant exposure which may increase the risk of fezolinetant-related adverse effects. Fezolinetant is a CYP1A2 substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased fezolinetant overall exposure by 360%.
Finerenone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of finerenone and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased finerenone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased overall exposure to finerenone by 80%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and fingolimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flibanserin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of flibanserin and fexinidazole due to the potential for decreased plasma concentrations of flibanserin. Flibanserin is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased flibanserin exposure by approximately 21%.
Fluconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and fluconazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of fexinidazole and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and fluvoxamine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and fosamprenavir. Concurrent use may decrease the exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and fosphenytoin. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole- and phenytoin-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites and may increase phenytoin exposure. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a CYP2C19 inhibitor; phenytoin is a CYP2C19 substrate and a strong CYP3A inducer.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fruquintinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fruquintinib with fexinidazole if possible due to the risk for decreased fruquintinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concomitant use of fruquintinib and fexinidazole is necessary, monitor for decreased efficacy. Fruquintinib is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease fruquintinib exposure by 32%.
Furosemide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of furosemide and fexinidazole and monitor for an increase in furosemide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Fexinidazole may inhibit furosemide elimination and increase furosemide exposure.
Ganaxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ganaxolone and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased ganaxolone efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing ganaxolone dose without exceeding the maximum daily dose. Ganaxolone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and gemifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and gemtuzumab increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease gepotidacin exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if gepotidacin is being used to treat gonorrhea and in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce gepotidacin overall exposure by 49%.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of glasdegib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased glasdegib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in glecaprevir efficacy during concomitant use of glecaprevir and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease glecaprevir exposure. Glecaprevir is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Goserelin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Granisetron: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and granisetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during fexinidazole treatment due to the risk for decreased fexinidazole exposure and efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guanFACINE: (Major) A dose increase of extended-release (ER) guanfacine should be considered if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Consider doubling the recommended dose of guanfacine if therapy is added to a patient already taking fexinidazole; increase the dose of guanfacine over 1 to 2 weeks if fexinidazole therapy is added to a patient already taking guanfacine. Specific recommendations for immediate-release (IR) guanfacine are not available. Guanfacine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and haloperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of ibrexafungerp with fexinidazole. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease ibrexafungerp exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and idelalisib and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for increased ifosfamide-related toxicities (e.g., neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity) if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider adjusting the dose of ifosfamide as clinically appropriate. Ifosfamide is metabolized to its active alkylating metabolites by CYP3A; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use may increase the formation of the neurotoxic/nephrotoxic ifosfamide metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and imatinib and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Imipramine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of fexinidazole and tricyclic antidepressants, such as imipramine, although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and fexinidazole. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and inotuzumab increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and isavuconazole and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and isavuconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Itraconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and itraconazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as ivabradine, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fexinidazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites, decreasing its efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Labetalol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in zidovudine efficacy during concomitant use of zidovudine and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease zidovudine exposure. Zidovudine is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in lamotrigine efficacy during concomitant use of lamotrigine and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease lamotrigine exposure. Lamotrigine is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Landiolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for lansoprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase lansoprazole exposure. Lansoprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease the exposure and efficacy of both drugs. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for lansoprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase lansoprazole exposure. Lansoprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Lapatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and lapatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of larotrectinib and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased larotrectinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, double the dose of larotrectinib and monitor response. If fexinidazole is discontinued, resume the original larotrectinib dose after 3 to 5 elimination half-lives of fexinidazole. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease larotrectinib exposure by 72%.
Lasmiditan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as lasmiditan, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Lazertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Lefamulin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and lefamulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease the exposure and efficacy of both drugs. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Lefamulin is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor (oral lefamulin), fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease lemborexant exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased lenacapavir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Fexinidazole exposure may also decrease. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with fexinidazole is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day fexinidazole is initiated, a supplemental lenacapavir subcutaneous dose of 463.5 mg should be administered. If fexinidazole is continued beyond 6 months, this supplemental dose should be repeated every 6 months. After fexinidazole discontinuation, resume the standard 6-month lenacapavir injection schedule. Recommendations are not available for individuals already on fexinidazole at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 56%.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease leniolisib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced leniolisib overall exposure by 58%.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and letermovir and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Leuprolide: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Levobunolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fexinidazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites, decreasing its efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lonafarnib and fexinidazole is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased lonafarnib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. The exposure of fexinidazole may also be decreased. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and ritonavir due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and lopinavir; ritonavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease the exposure and efficacy of both drugs. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Lopinavir; ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and fexinidazole due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Lovastatin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lovastatin and fexinidazole and monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration is necessary. Coadministration may increase the exposure of lovastatin. Lovastatin is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) If lurasidone is used with fexinidazole, it may be necessary to increase the lurasidone dose after chronic treatment (7 days or more) with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may lead to a decrease in efficacy of lurasidone. Lurasidone is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Maraviroc: (Major) Increase the adult dose of maraviroc to 600 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with fexinidazole without a concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of maraviroc and fexinidazole is contraindicated in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/min. For pediatric patients, the concomitant use of maraviroc with fexinidazole without also taking a strong CYP3A inhibitor is not recommended. If the adult or pediatric patient's medication regimen also contains a strong CYP3A inhibitor, the CYP3A inhibitor's actions are expected to exceed that of fexinidazole; overall, increased maraviroc concentrations are expected (see recommended dose adjustments for use of maraviroc with the strong inhibitor). Maraviroc is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Mavacamten: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of mavacamten and fexinidazole is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased mavacamten exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer and moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Concomitant use of mefloquine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease mefloquine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mefloquine is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP2B6 and CYP3A; fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of methadone and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may alter methadone exposure resulting in increased adverse effects or decreased efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for respiratory depression and sedation or reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Adjust the methadone dose as needed. Methadone is a CYP3A, CYP2B6, and CYP2C19 substrate, fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 and CYP3A inducer and moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Metoprolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of mexiletine if coadministered with fexinidazole. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of mexiletine. Mexiletine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Minor) Monitor for a decrease in midazolam efficacy during concomitant use of midazolam and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease midazolam exposure. Midazolam is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with fexinidazole decreased the exposure of midazolam by 57%.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and mifepristone. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with fexinidazole, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and mitotane. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased mobocertinib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nadolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for esomeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase esomeprazole exposure. Esomeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Nebivolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and nefazodone and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and nelfinavir. Monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy and an increase in nelfinavir-related adverse effects if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites and may also increase nelfinavir exposure. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor; nelfinavir is a CYP2C19 substrate a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nerandomilast: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nerandomilast efficacy if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary; use a nerandomilast dosage of 18 mg twice daily and avoid a nerandomilast dosage reduction. Concurrent use may decrease nerandomilast exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased nerandomilast overall exposure by 41%.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole with neratinib due to decreased efficacy of neratinib. Neratinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Simulations using physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models suggest that another moderate CYP3A inducer may decrease neratinib exposure by 52%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and netupitant and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and nilotinib. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and ritonavir due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and fexinidazole may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease the exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce nirogacestat overall exposure by 67%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Nortriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of fexinidazole and tricyclic antidepressants, such as nortriptyline, although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with fexinidazole due to the risk of decreasing the efficacy of olaparib. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may decrease olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the olaparib Cmax by 31% and the AUC by 60%.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of olutasidenib and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased olutasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Olutasidenib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in orforglipron efficacy during concomitant use of orforglipron and fexinidazole; consider an orforglipron dosage increase as appropriate based on response. Concomitant use may decrease orforglipron exposure. Orforglipron is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce orforglipron overall exposure by 61%.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration as concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of fexinidazole, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP2B6 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 inducer.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oveporexton: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oveporexton and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease oveporexton exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce oveporexton overall exposure by 73%.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OXcarbazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased plasma levels of MHD, the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine, if coadministered with fexinidazole. The oxcarbazepine dose may require adjustment after initiation, dosage modification, or discontinuation of fexinidazole. UGT inducers like fexinidazole have been shown to decrease MHD exposure by 25 to 49%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease palovarotene exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in paltusotine efficacy during concomitant use of paltusotine and fexinidazole; increase the paltusotine dosage as appropriate based on response. When increasing the paltusotine dosage, do not exceed 2x the prior dose or 120 mg daily, whichever is less. Concomitant use may decrease paltusotine exposure. Paltusotine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce paltusotine overall exposure by 30%.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pasireotide: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased pemigatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease pemigatinib exposure by more than 50%.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Perampanel: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to fexinidazole therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If fexinidazole is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of fexinidazole and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of fexinidazole and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and phenytoin. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole- and phenytoin-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites and may increase phenytoin exposure. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a CYP2C19 inhibitor; phenytoin is a CYP2C19 substrate and a strong CYP3A inducer.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimavanserin and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased pimavanserin exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the exposure of pimavanserin by approximately 70%.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and fexinidazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase pimozide exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Pimozide is a CYP1A2 substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Pindolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and fexinidazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and fexinidazole is an MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE/OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Pirfenidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pirfenidone and fexinidazole due to the increased risk for pirfenidone-related adverse effects and exposure. Pirfenidone is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 with minor contributions from CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of pirtobrutinib and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased pirtobrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, an empiric pirtobrutinib dosage increase is required. If the current dosage is 200 mg once daily, increase the dose to 300 mg; if the current dosage is 50 mg or 100 mg once daily, increase the dose by 50 mg. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inducers reduced pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 27% and 49%.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and posaconazole. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and pralsetinib due to the risk of decreased pralsetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the current dose of pralsetinib (400 mg to 600 mg; 300 mg to 500 mg; 200 mg to 300 mg) starting on day 7 of coadministration. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the pralsetinib overall exposure by 45%.
Praziquantel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of praziquantel and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease praziquantel exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for reduced response to praziquantel. Praziquantel is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. When praziquantel was administered after 13 days of treatment with a moderate CYP3A inducer, the mean praziquantel AUC was 77% lower than when praziquantel was given alone.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of fexinidazole and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, concomitant use may increase propafenone exposure and the risk for propafenone-related adverse effects. Propafenone is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Propranolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Protriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of fexinidazole and tricyclic antidepressants, such as protriptyline, although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quizartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of quizartinib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased quizartinib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ramelteon-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Ramelteon is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ranolazine and fexinidazole is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ranolazine exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ranolazine is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Rasagiline: (Major) Do not exceed a rasagiline dose of 0.5 mg once daily when coadministered with fexinidazole. Coadministration may result in increased rasagiline concentrations. Rasagiline is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and relacorilant. If use is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of both drugs. Concomitant use may decrease the exposure of both drugs. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and relacorilant is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with fexinidazole due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Revumenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased revumenib exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and ribociclib. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and ribociclib. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and rifampin. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and rifapentine. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of rilpivirine and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease rilpivirine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with fexinidazole may increase the risk for riluzole-related adverse reactions, such as gastrointestinal symptoms and elevated hepatic enzymes. In vitro findings suggest an increase in riluzole exposure is likely. Riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease the exposure of both drugs, potentially reducing their efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with fexinidazole; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ripretinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ripretinib with fexinidazole. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the frequency of ripretinib dosing from 150 mg once daily to 150 mg twice daily; monitor for clinical response and tolerability. Resume once daily dosing of ripretinib 14 days after discontinuation of fexinidazole. Coadministration is predicted to decrease the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may decrease ripretinib anti-tumor activity. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Drug interaction modeling studies suggest coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer may decrease ripretinib exposure by 56%.
risperiDONE: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and risperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and ritlecitinib and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and ritonavir due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Saquinavir: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and saquinavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease the exposure and efficacy of both drugs. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Saquinavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease sebetralstat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced sebetralstat overall exposure by 79%.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of fexinidazole. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on fexinidazole, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Selexipag: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in selexipag efficacy during concomitant use of selexipag and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease selexipag exposure. Selexipag is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of selpercatinib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased selpercatinib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Selpercatinib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease selpercatinib exposure by 40% to 70%.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased selumetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selumetinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease selumetinib exposure by 38%.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and sertraline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Simvastatin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of simvastatin and fexinidazole and monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration is necessary. Coadministration may increase the exposure of simvastatin. Simvastatin is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of siponimod and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease siponimod exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use is not recommended for patients with CYP2C9*1/*3 and *2/*3 genotypes due to a significant decrease in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Across different CYP2C9 genotypes, a moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of siponimod by up to 52% according to in silico evaluation.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of velpatasvir and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease velpatasvir exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP2B6 and CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of velpatasvir and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease velpatasvir exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP2B6 and CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP2B6 and moderate CYP3A inducer. (Major) Concomitant use of voxilaprevir with fexinidazole is not recommended due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of voxilaprevir, which may result in loss of antiviral efficacy. Voxilaprevir is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Solifenacin: (Major) Concomitant use of solifenacin and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease solifenacin exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Solifenacin is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and fexinidazole; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in sotagliflozin efficacy during concomitant use of sotagliflozin and fexinidazole and adjust therapy as appropriate. Concomitant use may decrease sotagliflozin exposure. Sotagliflozin is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer. Concomitant use with another UGT inducer reduced sotagliflozin overall exposure by 45%.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and St. John's Wort. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if fexinidazole must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Sulbactam; Durlobactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulbactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulbactam exposure. Sulbactam is an OAT1 substrate and fexinidazole is an OAT1 inhibitor.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and fexinidazole is an OAT3 inhibitor.
SUNItinib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and sunitinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Concomitant use of tacrolimus and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease tacrolimus exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor tacrolimus concentrations as appropriate if coadministration is necessary; a tacrolimus dose adjustment may be needed. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased taletrectinib exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tazemetostat and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased tazemetostat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Telavancin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Monitor theophylline concentrations and watch for an increase in theophylline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; a theophylline dose reduction may be necessary. Theophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Timolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as beta-blockers, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and tipranavir due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Monitor for decreased efficacy if concomitant use is necessary. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer; tipranavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
tiZANidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and fexinidazole as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Tolterodine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and tolterodine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as verapamil, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. Concomitant use may also limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites, reducing its efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Triclabendazole exposure may also be increased, further elevating the risk of QT-related cardiac events. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of fexinidazole and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trimipramine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of fexinidazole and tricyclic antidepressants, such as trimipramine, although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and tucatinib and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inducer.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Monitor for too large or too rapid an increase in hemoglobin response and an increase in vadadustat-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase vadadustat exposure. Vadadustat is an OAT1/3 substrate and fexinidazole is an OAT1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OAT1/3 inhibitor increased vadadustat overall exposure by approximately 1.75-fold.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in valproic acid efficacy and check valproic acid concentrations as appropriate during concomitant use of fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease valproic acid exposure and efficacy. Valproic acid is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 69% and 73%, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 69% and 73%, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and vardenafil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid coadministration of venetoclax with fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease venetoclax exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. Venetoclax is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and venlafaxine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and medications that cause bradycardia, such as verapamil, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Fexinidazole is known to prolong the QT interval and medications that may cause bradycardia can increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. Concomitant use may also limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites, reducing its efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of voclosporin and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased voclosporin exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Voclosporin is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease voclosporin exposure by 70%. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and fexinidazole due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and fexinidazole due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and fexinidazole due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease the exposure and efficacy of both drugs. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and fexinidazole due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and voriconazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease the exposure and efficacy of both drugs. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Voriconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased voriconazole exposure by 77%.
Vorinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of both drugs and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is necessary, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with fexinidazole is necessary as concurrent use may alter the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy or increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A and CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inducer and CYP1A2 inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of zanubrutinib and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased zanubrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase zanubrutinib dose to 320 mg twice daily and monitor response. Resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib if fexinidazole is discontinued. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased zanubrutinib exposure by 44%.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased zidesamtinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in zidovudine efficacy during concomitant use of zidovudine and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease zidovudine exposure. Zidovudine is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased ziftomenib exposure and efficacy and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Zoliflodacin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of zoliflodacin and fexinidazole is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased zoliflodacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zoliflodacin is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce zoliflodacin overall exposure by 41%.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes occurred in less than 2% of patients receiving fexinidazole during clinical trials. Severe, irreversible hepatotoxicity and acute hepatic failure have been reported in patients with Cockayne syndrome that have been treated with systemic metronidazole, another nitroimidazole agent, structurally related to fexinidazole. Some of these cases have been fatal with rapid onset after therapy initiation; latency from drug start to signs of liver failure have been as short as 2 days. Monitor liver-related laboratory tests during fexinidazole treatment, and monitor patients who develop abnormal liver-related laboratory tests during treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypertension, palpitations, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Fexinidazole has been shown to cause QT prolongation in a concentration-dependent manner. Treatment with fexinidazole caused an average increase of 19 msec in the QTcF interval. In clinical trials, 3 fexinidazole-treated patients (less than 1%) had a QTcF value of more than 500 msec. Palpitations (4.9%), hot flush (4.9%), and hypertension (4.5%) were also reported with fexinidazole during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, nightmares, paresthesias, psychosis, suicidal ideation, tremor
    General Information
    Adults treated with fexinidazole reported a higher percentage of central nervous system (CNS) and psychiatric-related adverse reactions compared to those treated with nifurtimox-eflornithine combination therapy (NECT) during clinical trials. Consider alternative therapy or increased monitoring of the patient, including hospitalization, if such adverse events occur. Adverse events included insomnia (28%), headache (34.8%), tremor (22%), dizziness (18.9%), extrapyramidal disorder (3.4%), paresthesias (2.3%), drowsiness, mood changes, and psychiatric disorders such as agitation (3.8%), anxiety (3.8%), abnormal behavior (2.7%), depression (less than 2%), nightmares, hallucinations (less than 2%), personality changes (less than 2%), suicidal ideation (less than 2%), and psychosis (less than 2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    neutropenia
    General Information
    Neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count [ANC] less than 1,000 cells/mm3) has been reported in 5.7% of patients receiving fexinidazole during clinical trials. This occurred in patients with a baseline ANC of less than 5,000 cells/mm3. Monitor patients with neutropenia for fever or other signs or symptoms of infections and treat promptly if such symptoms occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, gastritis, hypersalivation, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    The most common gastrointestinal adverse event reported with fexinidazole during clinical trials was vomiting (28.4%). The incidence of vomiting within 30 minutes of administration was higher in pediatric patients (20%) than in adults (6.1%). Pediatric patients also experienced more vomiting within 2 hours of fexinidazole administration. There was a trend of increased incidence of vomiting during the loading phase; however, vomiting generally did not lead to treatment discontinuation. Other gastrointestinal adverse events reported with fexinidazole during clinical trials include nausea (25.8%), dyspepsia (12.9%), upper abdominal pain (10.2%), hypersalivation (6.1%), constipation (4.9%), abdominal distension (3%), and gastritis (3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, chest pain (unspecified), fatigue
    General Information
    General adverse events reported with fexinidazole during clinical trials include asthenia (22.7%), fatigue, feeling hot (9.5%), chest pain (unspecified) (8.7%), and gait disturbance (4.5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypoalbuminemia, hypocalcemia
    General Information
    Metabolism and nutrition adverse events reported with fexinidazole during clinical trials include decreased appetite (21.2%), hypocalcemia (13.6%), hypoalbuminemia (8.7%), and hyperkalemia (more than 10%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    back pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal and connective tissue adverse events reported with fexinidazole during clinical trials include back pain (11.4%), neck pain (8.7%), and muscle spasms (2.7%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea
    General Information
    Respiratory adverse events reported with fexinidazole during clinical trials include cough (6%) and dyspnea (2.3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperhidrosis, pruritus
    General Information
    Skin and subcutaneous tissue adverse events reported with fexinidazole during clinical trials include pruritus (3.8%) and hyperhidrosis (2.7%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    photophobia
    General Information
    Photophobia was reported in 2.3% of fexinidazole-treated patients during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      photophobia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Fexinidazole is an oral nitroimidazole antiprotozoal drug indicated for the treatment of both first-stage (hemolymphatic) and second-stage (meningoencephalitic) human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), also known as sleeping sickness, due to Trypanosoma brucei gambiense in patients 6 years of age and older. Due to decreased efficacy, fexinidazole should only be used in patients with severe second-stage HAT, as defined by cerebrospinal fluid white blood cell count more than 100 cells/microliter at baseline, if there are no other available options. To ensure adequate treatment, health care providers must monitor the patient's fed state, vomiting after administration, and missed doses; directly observed therapy is recommended. Neuropsychiatric adverse events and QT prolongation can occur with fexinidazole. Concomitant use with alcohol can cause a disulfiram-like reaction. Significant drug interactions with other drugs that prolong the QT interval or those that inhibit or induce CYP450 can occur.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Fexinidazole is an oral nitroimidazole antiprotozoal drug that acts through bioactivation by parasite nitroreductase (NTR) enzymes to generate reactive amines and/or other metabolites that exert toxic effects, including damage to DNA and proteins, on the trypanosomes of T. brucei gambiense. The activity of fexinidazole and its metabolites (M1 and M2) is trypanocidal and appears to be concentration- and time-dependent. The precise mechanism by which fexinidazole and its metabolites exhibit activity against T. brucei is not known.
 
The mechanism of resistance to fexinidazole appears to be similar to other nitro-containing drugs and includes down-regulation of Type 1 NTR; however, the clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. Cross-resistance is suggested between fexinidazole and other nitro-containing drugs, such as nifurtimox. The potential for the development of resistance to fexinidazole in patients previously treated with nifurtimox-eflornithine combination therapy (NECT) cannot be discounted.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Fexinidazole is rapidly absorbed. The median Tmax on day 4 was 4 hours for fexinidazole, 4 hours for the metabolite M1, and 6 hours for the metabolite M2. The mean Cmax of fexinidazole decreased from 1.6 mcg/mL on day 1 to 0.5 mcg/mL on day 10, and the mean AUC0-24 of fexinidazole decreased from 14.3 mcg x hours/mL on day 1 to 7 mcg x hours/mL on day 10. The mean Cmax of M1 decreased from 8.1 mcg/mL on day 1 to 5.9 mcg/mL on day 10, and the mean AUC0-24 of M1 decreased from 102.3 mcg x hours/mL on day 1 to 84.2 mcg x hours/mL on day 10, peaking at 127.9 mcg x hours/mL on day 4. The mean Cmax of M2 increased from 7.5 mcg/mL on day 1 to 12.5 mcg/mL on day 10, peaking at 19.6 mcg/mL on day 4, and the mean AUC0-24 of M2 increased from 110.1 mcg x hours/mL on day 1 to 252.4 mcg x hours/mL on day 10, peaking at 391.5 mcg x hours/mL on day 4.
 
Food markedly increases the bioavailability of fexinidazole. The AUC of fexinidazole, M1, and M2 were approximately 4 to 5-fold higher after administration with food compared to a fasted state. The amount of food taken is more important than the type of food (i.e., fat content, etc.); however, liquid food is not recommended because it would drastically decrease fexinidazole absorption. Taken without food, the absorption is insufficient and the active metabolites do not reach therapeutic concentrations, especially in the central nervous system.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    After a single 1,200 mg dose of fexinidazole to subjects with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A, n = 7), fexinidazole, M1, and M2 AUC estimates were 1.4-fold higher, 1.13-fold higher, and 1.2-fold higher, respectively, and their half-life estimates were 1.38-fold higher, 1.18-fold higher, and 0.93-fold lower, respectively. The sum of AUCs of active metabolites M1 and M2 was increased by 5%, in comparison to subjects without hepatic impairment (n = 7). In the same study, in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B, n = 7), fexinidazole, M1, and M2 AUC estimates were 1.36-fold higher, 1.46-fold higher, and 0.65-fold lower, respectively, and their half-life estimates were 1.77-fold higher, 1.25-fold higher, and 1.34-fold higher, respectively. The sum of AUCs of active metabolites M1 and M2 was decreased by 18%, compared to subjects without hepatic impairment (n = 7). The unbound fraction of fexinidazole was not affected by mild or moderate hepatic impairment. The effect of severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) on fexinidazole pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    A population pharmacokinetic analysis, based on baseline renal function, evaluated data in subjects with an eGFR of 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more (n = 317). The predicted AUC0-24 estimates for fexinidazole, M1, and M2 were similar in subjects with mild or moderate renal impairment compared to those subjects without renal impairment. The pharmacokinetics of fexinidazole in subjects with severe renal impairment has not been studied.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The ranges of plasma AUC values of fexinidazole, M1, and M2 in pediatric subjects and adults with body weights of 20 kg or more were overlapping after administration at the recommended pediatric and adult doses, indicating similar systemic exposures across body weight of 20 kg or more.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of subjects age 6 to 71 years, age was not a significant covariate affecting the pharmacokinetics of fexinidazole, M1, or M2, and no differences in the pharmacokinetics of these 3 moieties were observed.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Insufficient data were available from clinical trials to assess the effect of race or ethnicity on fexinidazole pharmacokinetics.
  Text
  Fexinidazole is administered orally. Plasma protein binding is 98% for fexinidazole, 41% for M1 (sulfoxide) metabolite, and 57% for M2 (sulfone) metabolite. The apparent Vd of fexinidazole on day 4 is 3,222 L. At 24 hours after the last fexinidazole dose on day 10, the mean CSF concentration of M1 is 1.39 mcg/mL with a mean CSF to dried blood spot (DBS) ratio of 0.53, and the mean CSF concentration of M2 is 6.45 mcg/mL with a mean CSF to DBS ratio of 0.36. Fexinidazole is metabolized to M1 by several CYP450 enzymes, including CYP3A4 and flavin monooxygenases. Several CYP450 enzymes, including CYP3A4 and flavin monooxygenases, are involved in the metabolism of M1 to M2. M2 is not further metabolized. M1 and M2 are pharmacologically active metabolites. The AUC0-24 of M1 and M2 are 11 and 34-fold higher, respectively, than that of fexinidazole. Less than 3.2% of a given dose of fexinidazole, primarily as M1 and M2 metabolites, is excreted in urine. Most of the M1 and M2 metabolites are excreted in the feces within the first 48 and 120 hours after the dose, respectively. The mean apparent clearance on day 4 is 161 L/hour for fexinidazole. The mean day 10 half-life is 15 hours for fexinidazole, 16 hours for M1, and 23 hours for M2.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4/5, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT2, OAT1, OAT3, MATE1-K, MATE2-K, UGT
Several CYP450 enzymes, including CYP3A4, are involved in the metabolism of fexinidazole and the active metabolite M1. Fexinidazole has the potential to inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4/5, and the active metabolite M1 has the potential to inhibit CYP2C19. The active metabolite M2 does not inhibit any CYP450 enzymes. Fexinidazole inhibits OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT2, OAT1, OAT3, MATE1-K, and MATE2-K transporters. M1 inhibits OAT3, MATE1-K, and MATE2-K transporters. M2 inhibits OCT2, OAT1, OAT3, MATE1-K, and MATE2-K transporters. Fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A4/5 inducer. Fexinidazole has the potential to induce CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 and the active metabolite M1 has the potential to induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP3A5, UGT1A4, UGT2B4 and UGT2B7. The active metabolite M2 has the potential to induce UGT2B4.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Swallow tablets whole. Do not break or crush tablets.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer with food at about the same time each day. Preferred administration is during or immediately after (within 30 minutes) the main meal (solid food) of the day. The amount of food considered necessary is defined as a standard breakfast or lunch (a minimum volume of 250 mL of solid food). A dose taken without food is equal to a missed dose due to insufficient absorption.
Vomiting:
If a first event of vomiting occurs, do not re-dose. Administer the next dose the following day using the recommended treatment schedule. Consider giving metoclopramide if available.
If the vomiting happened less than 2 hours after the dose, there is a risk of incomplete absorption. Repeat the same dose the following day. Extend the treatment by 1 day.
If the vomiting happened more than 2 hours after the dose, the dose is considered valid and assumed to be sufficiently absorbed.
If a second event of vomiting occurs after administration of any other dose, with or without the use of an antiemetic, consider the possibility of changing to an alternative treatment. The timing (2 hours after medicine intake) defines the validity of the dose taken.
Missed doses:
If a scheduled dose is missed, normal dosing should resume the following day until the full course (10 days) of treatment has been completed.
For the treatment to be considered acceptable (although not ideal), a minimum of 7 doses must be correctly taken, including the complete loading phase (days 1 to 4), plus at least 3 doses during the maintenance phase (days 5 to 10).
If a dose is missed during the loading phase, and more than 1 day has passed, the treatment must re-start from zero.
If a dose is missed during the maintenance phase, ensure that a minimum of 3 doses (out of the 6 doses) are correctly taken.
If a second dose is missed, consider the patient unreliable to take oral fexinidazole and establish an alternative treatment.
Directly observed therapy is recommended.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1,800 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1,800 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    13 to 17 years weighing 35 kg or more: 1,800 mg/day PO.
13 to 17 years weighing 20 to 34 kg: 1,200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    6 to 12 years weighing 35 kg or more: 1,800 mg/day PO.
6 to 12 years weighing 20 to 34 kg: 1,200 mg/day PO.
6 to 12 years weighing less than 20 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Child-Pugh class A: No dosage adjustment is needed.
Child-Pugh class B: No dosage adjustment is recommended; however, exposure to fexinidazole and its active metabolite M1 increases, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions.
Child-Pugh class C: Use is contraindicated.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Avoid use.
