=== Gilteritinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5119)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Gilteritinib is an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits mutant FLT3.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 120 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, colitis, gi perforation, oral ulceration, peptic ulcer, dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, cardiac arrest, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, hypotension, myocarditis, pericardial effusion, pericarditis, hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, cough, dyspnea, hypoxia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of differentiation syndrome such as fever, dyspnea, hypoxia, pulmonary infiltrates, pulmonary edema, pleural or pericardial effusion, rapid weight gain or peripheral edema, rash, hypotension, or renal dysfunction. If differentiation syndrome is suspected... Emetic risk: Minimal/Low

Brand Names
  - XOSPATA

Dosage Forms
  - XOSPATA 40mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of relapsed or refractory FLT3 mutation-positive AML
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          120 mg orally once daily. Continue therapy for a minimum of 6 cycles in patients who do not have unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop toxicity. At a median follow-up, 17.8 months (range, 14.9 to 19.1 months), the median overall survival (OS) time was significantly improved in adult patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib compared with chemotherapy (9.3 months vs. 5.6 months; hazard ratio (HR) = 0.64; 95% CI, 0.49 to 0.83; p = 0.0004) in a multicenter, randomized (2:1), phase 3 trial (n = 371; the ADMIRAL trial). Chemotherapy consisted or high-intensity therapy with mitoxantrone, etoposide, and cytarabine (MEC; n = 33) or granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, fludarabine, cytarabine, and idarubicin (FLAG-IDA; n = 42) or low-intensity therapy with low-dose cytarabine (n = 17) or azacitidine (n = 32). In a subgroup analysis, OS was also significantly improved in patients who received gilteritinib compared with either high-intensity (HR = 0.66; 95% CI, 0.47 to 0.93) or low-intensity (HR = 0.56; 95% CI, 0.38 to 0.84) chemotherapy
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    differentiation syndrome
    General Information
    Differentiation syndrome with or without concomitant leukocytosis has been reported with gilteritinib therapy; this syndrome may be life-threatening or fatal if not treated. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of differentiation syndrome such as fever, dyspnea, hypoxia, pulmonary infiltrates, pulmonary edema, pleural or pericardial effusion, rapid weight gain or peripheral edema, rash, hypotension, or renal dysfunction. If differentiation syndrome is suspected, start corticosteroid therapy and closely monitor hemodynamic parameters until symptom resolution. Differentiation syndrome may occur as soon as 1 day and up to 82 days after starting gilteritinib.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use gilteritinib with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Gilteritinib may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Females of reproductive potential should avoid becoming pregnant while taking gilteritinib. Discuss the potential hazard to the fetus if a patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug. Although gilteritinib has not been evaluated in pregnant women, fetal toxicity occurred when pregnant rats received a gilteritinib dose resulting in approximately 0.4-times the exposure that was observed in humans who received the recommended dose. Fetal toxicity in this animal study included embryo-fetal death; decreased fetal body and placental weight; decreased numbers of ossified sternebrae and sacral and caudal vertebrae; and an increased incidence of fetal gross external (e.g., anasarca, local edema, exencephaly, cleft lip, cleft palate, short tail, and umbilical hernia), visceral (e.g., microphthalmia, atrial and/or ventricular defects, malformed/absent kidney, and malpositioned adrenal gland and ovary), and skeletal (e.g., sternoschisis, absent rib, fused rib, fused cervical arch, misaligned cervical vertebra, and absent thoracic vertebra) abnormalities.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, male-mediated teratogenicity, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during gilteritinib treatment. Pregnancy testing should be performed in women of reproductive potential within 7 days prior to initiating therapy. These women should use effective contraception during therapy and for 6 months after the final gilteritinib dose. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, male patients should use effective contraception to avoid potential drug exposure in female partners of reproductive potential during therapy and for 4 months after the final gilteritinib dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is not known if gilteritinib or its active metabolites are secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed infant or on milk production. Because there is a potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from gilteritinib, women should be advised against breast-feeding during gilteritinib therapy and for 2 months after the last dose.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Gilteritinib may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Females of reproductive potential should avoid becoming pregnant while taking gilteritinib. Discuss the potential hazard to the fetus if a patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug. Although gilteritinib has not been evaluated in pregnant women, fetal toxicity occurred when pregnant rats received a gilteritinib dose resulting in approximately 0.4-times the exposure that was observed in humans who received the recommended dose. Fetal toxicity in this animal study included embryo-fetal death; decreased fetal body and placental weight; decreased numbers of ossified sternebrae and sacral and caudal vertebrae; and an increased incidence of fetal gross external (e.g., anasarca, local edema, exencephaly, cleft lip, cleft palate, short tail, and umbilical hernia), visceral (e.g., microphthalmia, atrial and/or ventricular defects, malformed/absent kidney, and malpositioned adrenal gland and ovary), and skeletal (e.g., sternoschisis, absent rib, fused rib, fused cervical arch, misaligned cervical vertebra, and absent thoracic vertebra) abnormalities.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    It is not known if gilteritinib or its active metabolites are secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed infant or on milk production. Because there is a potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from gilteritinib, women should be advised against breast-feeding during gilteritinib therapy and for 2 months after the last dose.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure and increase the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications may prolong the QT interval. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of gilteritinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of gilteritinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and alfuzosin is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with gilteritinib due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and gilteritinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Use caution and monitor electrocardiograms (ECGs) for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and amisulpride is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Consider an alternative to clarithromycin during treatment with gilteritinib due to increased gilteritinib exposure and the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib-related and cardiac toxicity. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Anagrelide: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and apalutamide due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and apomorphine is necessary since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of arsenic trioxide with gilteritinib; discontinue or select an alternative drug that does not prolong the QT interval prior to starting arsenic trioxide therapy. If concomitant drug use is unavoidable, frequently monitor electrocardiograms. Torsade de pointes (TdP), QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if gilteritinib must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Both artemether; lumefantrine and gilteritinib have been associated with QT prolongation.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of asenapine with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Atazanavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to atazanavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Consider an alternative to atazanavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with gilteritinib due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and bedaquiline is necessary. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration may result in additive or synergistic prolongation of the QT interval.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and buprenorphine is necessary. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommends avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and buprenorphine is necessary. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommends avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and rilpivirine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and carbamazepine due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; carbamazepine is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Ceritinib: (Major) Consider an alternative to ceritinib during treatment with gilteritinib due to increased gilteritinib exposure and the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is required, monitor for gilteritinib-related adverse reactions as well as monitoring periodic ECGs and serum electrolytes. Interrupt therapy, dose reduce, or discontinue treatment if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. In addition, both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Consider an alternative to chloramphenicol during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with gilteritinib due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and chlorpromazine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Use of gilteritinib with cisapride is contraindicated because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Avoid coadministration of citalopram with gilteritinib due to the potential for decreased response to citalopram and an additive risk of QT prolongation. If concurrent therapy is considered essential, ECG monitoring is recommended. Gilteritinib inhibits human 5HT2B receptor or sigma nonspecific receptors, which may reduce the effects of drugs like citalopram that target these receptors. In addition, both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Consider an alternative to clarithromycin during treatment with gilteritinib due to increased gilteritinib exposure and the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib-related and cardiac toxicity. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and clozapine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Coadministration has the potential for additive QT prolongation.
Cobicistat: (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-glycoprotein substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and gilteritinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with gilteritinib due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib can cause concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to darunavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. (Major) Consider an alternative to darunavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. (Major) Consider an alternative to darunavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and dasatinib is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval. Coadministration has the potential for additive QT prolongation.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving gilteritinib and degarelix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desflurane: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and halogenated anesthetics is necessary. Both gilteritinib and halogenated anesthetics have been associated with QT prolongation; coadministration has the potential for additive effects.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and deutetrabenazine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and quinidine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Quinidine is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and disopyramide is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Disopyramide has been associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration has the potential for additive QT prolongation.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and gilteritinib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and rilpivirine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and donepezil is necessary. Coadministration has the potential for additive QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and donepezil is necessary. Coadministration has the potential for additive QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with gilteritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Use of gilteritinib with dronedarone is contraindicated because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP). Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Dronedarone is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Do not use droperidol and gilteritinib together due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, use extreme caution; initiate droperidol at a low dose and increase the dose as needed to achieve the desired effect. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with gilteritinib. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of gilteritinib. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of gilteritinib; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and efavirenz is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with gilteritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and efavirenz is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with gilteritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and efavirenz is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and eliglustat is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with gilteritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold. (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and rilpivirine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with gilteritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and rilpivirine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with gilteritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib has been associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with gilteritinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Consider an alternative to ensitrelvir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with gilteritinib due to the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for evidence of QT prolongation during treatment. Both entrectinib and gilteritinib have been associated with QT prolongation.
eriBULin: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and eribulin is necessary. ECG monitoring is recommended. Gilteritinib and eribulin have both been associated with QT prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and erythromcyin is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Erythromycin is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration has the potential for additive cardiotoxicity.
Escitalopram: (Major) Avoid coadministration of escitalopram with gilteritinib if possible due to the potential for decreased response to escitalopram and additive QT prolongation. Gilteritinib inhibits human 5HT2B receptor or sigma nonspecific receptors, which may reduce the effects of drugs like escitalopram that target these receptors. In addition, both drug have been associated with QT prolongation.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and fingolimod is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and flecainide is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP); flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs that have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of fluconazole with drugs that are associated with QT prolongation and are also CYP3A4 substrates, such as gilteritinib, is contraindicated. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fluoxetine with gilteritinib if possible due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and decreased response to fluoxetine. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. Coadministration has the potential for additive cardiotoxicity. Additionally, gilteritinib inhibits human 5HT2B receptor or sigma nonspecific receptors, which may reduce the effects of drugs like fluoxetine that target these receptors.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and fluphenazine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fluvoxamine with gilteritinib if possible due to the potential for decreased response to fluvoxamine and additive QT prolongation. Gilteritinib inhibits human 5HT2B receptor or sigma nonspecific receptors, which may reduce the effects of drugs like fluvoxamine that target these receptors. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported during fluvoxamine postmarketing use.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to fosamprenavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of foscarnet with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported during postmarketing use of foscarnet.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and fosphenytoin due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; fosphenytoin is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and fostemsavir is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and gemifloxacin is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours after oral administration of gemifloxacin and may be dose-dependent.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and gilteritinib together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and gilteritinib as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and goserelin is necessary. Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and granisetron is necessary. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and halogenated anesthetics is necessary. Both gilteritinib and halogenated anesthetics have been associated with QT prolongation; coadministration has the potential for additive effects.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and haloperidol is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and histrelin is necessary. Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and ibutilide is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Ibutilide can cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Idelalisib: (Major) Consider an alternative to idelalisib during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iloperidone with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation; coadministration has the potential for additive effects.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain ECGs and prior to the start of treatment and periodically during treatment. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Isoflurane: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and halogenated anesthetics is necessary. Both gilteritinib and halogenated anesthetics have been associated with QT prolongation; coadministration has the potential for additive effects.
Itraconazole: (Major) Consider an alternative to itraconazole during treatment with gilteritinib due to increased gilteritinib exposure and the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib-related adverse effects and cardiac toxicity. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with itraconazole increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with gilteritinib if possible due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and gilteritinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of gilteritinib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with gilteritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Consider an alternative to clarithromycin during treatment with gilteritinib due to increased gilteritinib exposure and the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib-related and cardiac toxicity. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Lapatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes if coadministration of lapatinib with gilteritinib is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to treatment. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration has the potential for additive effects. Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with gilteritinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. The concurrent use of gilteritinib with oral lefamulin may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; gilteritinib may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Consider an alternative to letermovir in patients also receiving cyclosporine during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration of all 3 drugs is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when administered with cyclosporine the effect may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and leuprolide is necessary as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and gilteritinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of gilteritinib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and lofexidine is necessary. Monitor ECG. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Consider an alternative to lonafarnib during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation. (Major) Consider an alternative to ritonavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of macimorelin with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and gilteritinib may increase mavorixafor exposure and increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and mefloquine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data, mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval. Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Methadone: (Major) Use extreme caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and methadone is necessary; carefully assess treatment risks versus benefits. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (more than 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midostaurin: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and midostaurin is necessary. Consider obtaining periodic electrocardiograms. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Consider an alternative to mifepristone during treatment with gilteritinib due to increased gilteritinib exposure and the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib-related adverse effects and cardiac toxicity. To minimize the risk of QT prolongation, the lowest effective dose of mifepristone should always be used. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and moxifloxacin is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with gilteritinib. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and gilteritinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Consider an alternative to nefazodone during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to nelfinavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nilotinib with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Sudden death and QT interval prolongation have occurred in patients who received nilotinib therapy.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to ritonavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and olanzapine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fluoxetine with gilteritinib if possible due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and decreased response to fluoxetine. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. Coadministration has the potential for additive cardiotoxicity. Additionally, gilteritinib inhibits human 5HT2B receptor or sigma nonspecific receptors, which may reduce the effects of drugs like fluoxetine that target these receptors. (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and olanzapine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and olanzapine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with gilteritinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor ECGs and electrolytes in patients receiving oxaliplatin concomitantly with gilteritinib; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking gilteritinib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of paliperidone with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmia, then close monitoring is essential. Both paliperidone and gilteritinib have been associated with QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of paliperidone overdose.
Panobinostat: (Major) Coadministration of panobinostat and gilteritinib is not recommended. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
PARoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of paroxetine with gilteritinib if possible due to the potential for decreased response to paroxetine. Gilteritinib inhibits human 5HT2B receptor or sigma nonspecific receptors, which may reduce the effects of drugs like paroxetine that target these receptors.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and pasireotide is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of pazopanib with gilteritinib is not advised due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, closely monitor the patient. Taking these medications together may increase pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Pentamidine: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and pentamidine is necessary. Gilteritinib and systemic pentamidine have both been associated with QT prolongation.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and perphenazine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and perphenazine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and phenobarbital due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and phenobarbital due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and phenytoin due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; phenytoin is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimavanserin with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Use of gilteritinib with pimozide is contraindicated because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP). Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with gilteritinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking gilteritinib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Posaconazole: (Major) Consider an alternative to posaconazole during treatment with gilteritinib due to a risk of increased exposure of both medications and the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib or posaconazole-related adverse effects. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and a P-gp substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gilteritinib with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and primidone due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; primidone is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and gilteritinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Procainamide: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and procainamide is necessary. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and prochlorperazine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and tripolidine is necessary. Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and quinidine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Quinidine is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of quinine with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and ranolazine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Consider an alternative to relacorilant during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral gilteritinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and relugolix is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. If concomitant use is necessary, administer gilteritinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of gilteritinib is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than seven days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral gilteritinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and relugolix is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. If concomitant use is necessary, administer gilteritinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of gilteritinib is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than seven days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with gilteritinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with gilteritinib due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with gilteritinib due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and rifampin due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; rifampin is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and rilpivirine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with gilteritinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Use caution and closely monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and risperidone is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during risperidone therapy have primarily occurred in the overdosage setting.
Ritonavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to ritonavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and romidepsin is necessary. Consider monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and gilteritinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and gilteritinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of gilteritinib and saquinavir is contraindicated due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and other gilteritinib-related toxicities. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-gp inhibitor; saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with gilteritinib is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and sertraline is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Sertraline's FDA-approved labeling recommends avoiding concomitant use with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval; however, the risk of sertraline-induced QT prolongation is generally considered to be low in clinical practice. Its effect on QTc interval is minimal (typically less than 5 msec), and the drug has been used safely in patients with cardiac disease (e.g., recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, chronic heart failure). Additionally, gilteritinib inhibits human 5HT2B receptor or sigma nonspecific receptors, which may reduce the effects of drugs like sertraline that target these receptors.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and halogenated anesthetics is necessary. Both gilteritinib and halogenated anesthetics have been associated with QT prolongation; coadministration has the potential for additive effects.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and gilteritinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving gilteritinib due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of gilteritinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and solifenacin is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with gilteritinib due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Both drugs are associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and St. John's Wort due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; St. John's Wort is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and sunitinib is necessary. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Consider ECG and electrolyte monitoring periodically during treatment if tacrolimus is administered with gilteritinib. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Tacrolimus may also prolong the QT interval and cause torsade de pointes.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and telavancin is necessary. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with gilteritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tetrabenazine with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc).
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Use of gilteritinib with thioridazine is contraindicated because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP). Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Tipranavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to tipranavir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib and/or tipranavir exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib and tipranavir adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-gp inhibitor; tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and tolterodine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; gilteritinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and trifluoperazine is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Triprolidine: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and tripolidine is necessary. Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and triptorelin is necessary. Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Tucatinib: (Major) Consider an alternative to tucatinib during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; gilteritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with gilteritinib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and vemurafenib is necessary. ECG monitoring is recommended. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with gilteritinib due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of gilteritinib. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of gilteritinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of gilteritinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider interventions to minimize the risk of progression to torsades de pointes (TdP), such as ECG monitoring and correcting electrolyte abnormalities, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Consider an alternative to clarithromycin during treatment with gilteritinib due to increased gilteritinib exposure and the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib-related and cardiac toxicity. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Voriconazole: (Major) Consider an alternative to voriconazole during treatment with gilteritinib due to increased gilteritinib exposure and the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib-related adverse effects and cardiac toxicity. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and vorinostat is necessary. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziprasidone with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), eye disorders were reported in 25% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib.
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Myalgia/arthralgia (50%; grade 3 or higher, 7%) and worsening from baseline to grade 3 or 4 increased creatinine kinase level (6%) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib in a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319). Myalgia/arthralgia (31%; grade 3 or higher, 1.2%) and worsening from baseline to grade 3 or 4 increased creatinine kinase level (0.8%) occurred in patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial. Monitor serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels prior to starting gilteritinib, at least once weekly for the first month, once every other week for the next month, and then once monthly during therapy. The term myalgia/arthralgia included arthritis/polyarthritis, back pain, bone pain, flank pain, limb discomfort, medial tibial stress syndrome, musculoskeletal pain/discomfort, muscle cramps/spasms/contracture/twitching, myositis, neck pain, non-cardiac chest pain, pain, and extremity pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    abdominal pain, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, GI perforation, nausea, oral ulceration, peptic ulcer, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), mucositis (41%; grade 3 or higher, 7%), noninfectious diarrhea (35%), nausea (30%), constipation (28%), vomiting (21%), and abdominal pain (18%) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib. Constipation (17%; grade 3 or higher, 0.4%), mucositis (15%; grade 3 or higher, 0.4%), nausea (13%), and GI perforation (1%) occurred in patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial. In subgroup analyses of this randomized trial, abdominal pain was reported in 11% of gilteritinib-treated patients (n = 149) and diarrhea was reported in 12% of gilteritinib-treated patients (n = 97). The term mucositis included aphthous ulcer, colitis, enteritis, mucosal or laryngeal inflammation, mouth hemorrhage, large intestinal/peptic ulcer, oral ulceration/hemorrhage, oropharyngeal/esophageal/gingival pain, oral discomfort or pain, proctalgia, stomatitis, swollen tongue/tongue discomfort.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      GI perforation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperamylasemia, pancreatitis
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), pancreatitis was reported in 4% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib. Pancreatitis resulting in death was reported in 1 patient. Pancreatitis occurred in 5% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial. The term pancreatitis included increased amylase level/hyperamylasemia and increased lipase level. Evaluate patients who develop signs and symptoms of pancreatitis including severe and persistent abdominal pain, with or without nausea and vomiting. Therapy interruption and a dose reduction are necessary in patients who develop pancreatitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperamylasemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    encephalopathy, seizures
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) occurred in 1% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3 mutation-positive AML who received gilteritinib. Additionally, PRES occurred in 1% of patients with AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial. Symptoms of PRES may include seizures and altered mental status. Discontinue therapy in patients who develop PRES; this syndrome is diagnosed based on brain imagining, preferably using magnetic resonance imaging. Symptoms of PRES may resolve after therapy was discontinued.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      encephalopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), headache (24%), dizziness (22%), peripheral neuropathy (18%), and dysgeusia (11%) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib. Headache (11%), dizziness (11%), peripheral neuropathy (13%) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 149) in a randomized trial. The term peripheral neuropathy included hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, neuralgia, sensory peripheral neuropathy, and paresthesias.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 317), QT prolongation greater than 500 milliseconds (msec) was reported in 1% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib; additionally, 7% of patients had a QTc interval increase of greater than 60 msec from baseline. QT prolongation on electrocardiogram (ECG) occurred in 9% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial. Therapy interruption and a dose reduction are necessary in patients who develop a QTc interval greater than 500 msec. Obtain an ECG prior to starting gilteritinib, on days 8 and 15 of cycle 1, and prior to the start of cycles 2 and 3.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cardiac arrest, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, hypotension, myocarditis, pericardial effusion, pericarditis
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), hypotension was reported in 22% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib; grade 3 or higher hypotension occurred in 7% of these patients. Fatal cardiac arrest was reported in 1% of patients. Heart failure (4%), pericardial effusion (4%), and pericarditis/myocarditis (2%) occurred in patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial. The term heart failure included congestive heart failure, cardiomegaly, cardiomyopathy, chronic left ventricular failure, and decreased ejection fraction; the term pericarditis included pericardial hemorrhage and pericardial rub.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiomyopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pericardial effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pericarditis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocarditis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Worsening electrolyte levels from baseline including grade 3 or 4 decreased phosphate level/hypophosphatemia (14%), decreased sodium level/hyponatremia (12%), and decreased calcium level/hypocalcemia (6%) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib in a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 309 to 314). Grade 3 or 4 (worsened from baseline) decreased phosphate level (3%), decreased sodium level (5%), and decreased calcium level (2%) occurred in patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 242) in a randomized trial. Monitor electrolytes (e.g., potassium and magnesium levels) prior to starting gilteritinib, at least once weekly for the first month, once every other week for the next month, and then once monthly during therapy. Due to the risk of QT interval prolongation, correct electrolyte imbalances prior to and during treatment with gilteritinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nephrotoxicity
    General Information
    Nephrotoxicity has been reported with gilteritinib therapy. Monitor renal function tests (e.g., serum creatinine (SCr) level) prior to starting gilteritinib, at least once weekly for the first month, once every other week for the next month, and then once monthly during therapy. In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), renal impairment was reported in 21% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib. Grade 3 or 4 (worsened from baseline) increased SCr level was also reported in 3% of 316 evaluable patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Worsening laboratory values from baseline such as grade 3 or 4 increased triglyceride level/hypertriglyceridemia was reported in 6% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib in a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 310). Grade 3 or 4 (worsened from baseline) increased triglyceride level occurred in 1.3% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 240) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity has been reported with gilteritinib therapy. Monitor blood chemistries (e.g., liver function tests) prior to starting gilteritinib, at least once weekly for the first month, once every other week for the next month, and then once monthly during therapy. In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), elevated hepatic enzymes/increased transaminase levels were reported in 51% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib; grade 3 or higher increased transaminase levels occurred in 21% of these patients. Worsening liver function tests such as grade 3 or 4 increased ALT (13%), AST (10%), and alkaline phosphatase (2%) levels were also reported in 317 evaluable patients. Increased transaminase levels occurred in 33% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or higher increased transaminase levels were also reported in 10% of patients. Grade 3 or 4 (worsened from baseline) increased ALT (6%), AST (5%), and alkaline phosphatase (0.4%) levels occurred in patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 244) in this trial. The term increased transaminase levels included increased ALT and AST, alkaline phosphatase, gammaglutamyltransferase (GGT) levels and hepatoxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, hypoxia
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), dyspnea (35%; grade 3 or higher, 12%) and cough (28%) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib. Dyspnea occurred in 13% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or higher dyspnea was also reported in 1.6% of patients. In subgroup analyses of this randomized trial, cough occurred in 12% of gilteritinib-treated patients (n = 149); grade 3 or higher cough was reported in 1% of these patients. The term dyspnea included respiratory failure and hypoxia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    infection, neutropenia
    General Information
    Febrile neutropenia (neutropenic infection) occurred in 21% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, acneiform rash, bullous rash, contact dermatitis, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, hyperkeratosis, maculopapular rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), rash, skin hyperpigmentation, skin ulcer
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), rash was reported in 36% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib. Rash occurred in 13% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or higher rash was reported in 1.2% of patients. The term rash included acneiform rash, acne vulgaris, bullous rash, exfoliative dermatitis, erythema, maculopapular rash, rosacea, and skin ulcer/lesion, contact dermatitis, asteatotic eczema, hyperkeratosis, lichenoid keratosis, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), and skin hyperpigmentation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      contact dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkeratosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin hyperpigmentation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin ulcer
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), fever was reported in 41% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib. Fever occurred in 15% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or higher fever was reported in 0.8% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), edema was reported in 40% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib. Edema occurred in 16% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or higher edema was reported in 0.4% of patients. The term edema included peripheral edema/swelling, face edema, fluid overload, hypervolemia, periorbital edema, and scrotal edema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, erythema multiforme, urticaria
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reaction occurred in 8% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial. The term hypersensitivity reaction included anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, allergic dermatitis, erythema multiforme, and urticaria.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue, lethargy, malaise
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), fatigue/malaise was reported in 44% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib; grade 3 or higher fatigue/malaise occurred in 6% of these patients. Fatigue/malaise occurred in 23% of patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or higher fatigue/malaise was reported in 2% of patients. The term fatigue/malaise included asthenia and lethargy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    insomnia
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), insomnia was reported in 15% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    differentiation syndrome, leukocytosis, pleural effusion, weight gain
    General Information
    Differentiation syndrome with or without concomitant leukocytosis has been reported in 3% of patients who received gilteritinib in clinical trials. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of differentiation syndrome such as fever, dyspnea, hypoxia, pulmonary infiltrates, pulmonary edema, pericardial or pleural effusion, rapid weight gain or peripheral edema, rash, hypotension, or renal dysfunction. If differentiation syndrome is suspected, start corticosteroid therapy (e.g., dexamethasone 10 mg IV every 12 hours or PO/IV equivalent) and closely monitor hemodynamic parameters until improvement. Taper corticosteroids after symptoms resolve; premature corticosteroid discontinuation may lead to symptom recurrence. Interrupt gilteritinib therapy if severe signs or symptoms persist after 48 hours of corticosteroid therapy. Resume gilteritinib therapy when sign and symptoms of toxicity resolve to grade 2 or less. Differentiation syndrome may occur as soon as 1 day and up to 82 days after starting gilteritinib. In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials (n = 319), differentiation syndrome was reported in 3% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received gilteritinib. Differentiation syndrome resulting in death was reported in 1 patient. Some patients who experienced differentiation syndrome had concomitant acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis. Differentiation syndrome (3%) and acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (3%) occurred in patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutated AML who received gilteritinib (n = 246) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukocytosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      differentiation syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Gilteritinib is an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits mutant FLT3. It is indicated for the treatment of relapsed or refractory FLT3 mutation-positive acute myelogenous leukemia as detected by an FDA-approved test. Differentiation syndrome, posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, pancreatitis, and QT prolongation has been reported with gilteritinib therapy.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Gilteritinib is a small molecule that inhibits multiple receptor tyrosine kinases, including FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3). It demonstrates the ability to inhibit FLT3 receptor signaling and proliferation in cells exogenously expressing FLT3 including FLT3-ITD, tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) mutations FLT3-D835Y and FLT3-ITD-D835Y, and it induces apoptosis in leukemic cells expressing FLT3-ITD. In patients with relapsed or refractory AML administered gilteritinib, substantial (greater than 90%) inhibition of FLT3 phosphorylation was rapid (within 24 hours after the first dose) and sustained, as characterized by an ex vivo plasma inhibitor activity (PIA) assay.
 
Gilteritinib inhibits 5-Hydroxytryptamine receptor 2B (5HT2B), also known as serotonin receptor 2B, and sigma nonspecific receptors in vitro. Concomitant use of gilteritinib may reduce the effects of drugs that target these receptors.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The time to maximum gilteritinib concentration (Tmax) is approximately between 4 and 6 hours after the dose in the fasted state. Gilteritinib exposure (Cmax and AUC) increases proportionally with once daily doses ranging from 20 mg to 450 mg (0.27 to 3.75 times the recommended dose). The mean steady-state Cmax is 374 ng/mL and AUC is 6943 ng x h/mL. Steady-state plasma concentrations are reached within 15 days of dosing with an approximate 10-fold accumulation.
 
Effects of food: In healthy adults administered a single 40 mg gilteritinib dose (0.3 times the recommended dose), the Cmax decreased by 26% and the AUC decreased by less than 10% when coadministered with a high-fat meal (approximately 800 to 1000 calories with 500 to 600 fat calories) compared to a fasted state. The median Tmax was delayed 2 hours when administered with a high-fat meal.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild (Child-Pugh A) or moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment does not have clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of gilteritinib. The effect of severe hepatic (Child-Pugh C) impairment on gilteritinib pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild (CrCl 50 to 80 mL/min) or moderate (CrCl 30 to 50 mL/min) hepatic impairment does not have clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of gilteritinib. The effect of severe renal (CrCl 29 mL/min or less) impairment on gilteritinib pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (20 to 87 years) does not have clinically a meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of gilteritinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender does not have clinically a meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of gilteritinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race does not have clinically a meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of gilteritinib.
  Text
  Gilteritinib is administered orally. It is approximately 94% bound to human plasma proteins in vivo and is primarily bound to human serum albumin in vitro. The population mean (%CV) estimates of apparent central and peripheral volume of distribution is 1,092 L (9.22%) and 1,100 L (4.99%), respectively, which may indicate extensive tissue distribution. Gilteritinib is primarily metabolized via CYP3A4 in vitro. At steady state, the primary metabolites in humans include M17 (formed via N-dealkylation and oxidation), M16 (formed via N-dealkylation), and M10 (formed via N-dealkylation); however, none of these 3 metabolites exceed 10% of overall parent exposure. Single radiolabeled dose studies show 64.5% of the total administered gilteritinib dose is excreted in the feces. Of the total radiolabeled dose, 16.4% was recovered in the urine as unchanged drug and metabolites. The estimated half-life is 113 hours and the estimated apparent clearance is 14.85 L/hour.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), organic cation transporter (OCT)-1
Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate. It did not significantly inhibit CYP3A4 in a drug interaction study; gilteritinib increased the AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate by approximately 10% when coadministered. It did not significantly induce the multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE)-1 transporter in a drug interaction study; gilteritinib decreased the AUC of a MATE-1 substrate by less than 10% when coadministered. In vitro, gilteritinib is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and a P-gp, BCRP, and OCT-1 inhibitor.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Do not break or crush gilteritinib tablets; swallow whole with a whole cup of water.
Take with or without food.
Take orally about the same time each day. If a dose is missed or not taken at the usual time, administer the dose as soon as possible on the same day, and at least 12 hours prior to the next scheduled dose. Return to the normal schedule the next day.
Do not administer 2 doses within 12 hours.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    120 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    120 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no initial dosage adjustments are needed. Gilteritinib has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C).
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in mild (creatinine clearance (CrCl) of 50 to 80 mL/min) or moderate (CrCl of 30 to 50 mL/min) renal impairment are not available; it appears that no initial dosage adjustments are needed. Gilteritinib has not been evaluated in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl of 29 mL/min or less).
