=== Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements) (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 699)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Maximum dosage information is not available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): acneiform rash, emotional lability, hirsutism, menstrual irregularity, clitoromegaly, hoarseness, virilization, amenorrhea, breast discharge, breast enlargement, dysmenorrhea, galactorrhea, vaginal bleeding, clastogenesis, elevated hepatic enzymes, fatigue, hepatitis, jaundice, headache, insomnia, nasal congestion

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: DHEA has not yet been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (Prestara, a prescription-only dosage form, under FDA review, formerly known as Aslera or GL701)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adult females
        Dosage Description
        Prasterone is designated as an orphan drug by the FDA for this indication. Prasterone 200 mg PO once daily has been studied; study results have varied but prescription-forms of the drug may have some utility in treatment; confirmatory controlled studies to define population of benefit and optimal use are needed. In a multi-center randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, adult women with active SLE (n = 381, SLEDAI score more than 2 at baseline), received prasterone200 mg/day PO, and this dose improved or stabilized common signs and symptoms of disease and was generally well tolerated. Standard SLE treatments prior to and during the study included prednisone (10 mg/day) or less, antimalarials, and immunosuppressive agents; dosages were required to be stable for 6 weeks or more prior to enrollment and remained unchanged during protocol treatment. Initial phase III trials by the manufacturer used an oral dosage of 200 mg/day to study the effects of prasterone on bone mineral density of the spine in those female patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) taking glucocorticoids; however, therapy did not meet the primary end point in the confirmatory trial. One study in patients with severe SLE has been reported; the patients had SLE nephritis, serositis, or hematological abnormalities on study entry and were given DHEA 200 mg/day PO or placebo for 6 months, followed by a 6 month open-label period. SLEDAI scores in the DHEA-treated group were improved over placebo, but significant improvements vs. placebo in the primary manifestation outcomes (e.g., nephritis) were NOT noted.
    Heading
    For the adjunctive treatment of mild-to-moderate systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)† in adult women
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (dietary supplements)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adult males
        Dosage Description
        The level of evidence for the use of DHEA for erectile dysfunction (ED) is weak. A DHEA dosage of 50 mg PO once daily has been used. Controlled trials have not found DHEA to be effective for ED and preferred and effective prescription therapies are outlined in guidelines.
    Heading
    For the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED)†
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Premenopausal Adults
        Dosage Description
        25 mg PO once daily, initially. Adjust dose based on serum dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) concentrations, clinical response, and tolerability. Max: 50 mg/day. Guidelines recommend discontinuing therapy if no improvement after 6 months in individuals with primary adrenal insufficiency.
    Heading
    For the treatment of adrenal insufficiency-associated androgen deficiency†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: DHEA has not yet been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. Nutritional supplement products containing DHEA are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Consumers should also be informed that rigid quality control standards are not required for nutraceuticals and substantial variability can occur in both the potency and the purity of these products.The effect of DHEA on hormone-dependent tumors in males and females is unknown. Many hormonal agents with androgenic or estrogenic activity are contraindicated for use in persons with various hormonally-dependent neoplasms. Some data suggests an association between elevated endogenous DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations and the development of breast cancer and ovarian cancer in women. As with other hormones, DHEA supplementation in a woman with undiagnosed abnormal vaginal bleeding, endometrial cancer, endometrial hyperplasia, uterine cancer, or vaginal cancer is not recommended. DHEA may stimulate the growth of cancerous tissue and should not be used in male patients with either breast or prostate cancer. Male patients with symptoms of prostatic hypertrophy or erectile dysfunction that have not been medically evaluated should not take DHEA supplements. Because the incidence of some hormonally-dependent cancers naturally increases with age, "andropausal" men and post-menopausal women should approach DHEA supplementation with caution. It is recommended that a qualified healthcare prescriber's recommendations be sought prior to DHEA supplementation. Benefit versus risk should be determined individually. Women taking DHEA should receive an annual clinical breast examination and pelvic examination and regular mammograms as recommended by their healthcare professional. Men taking DHEA should receive annual physical examinations, including prostate examination or PSA levels, as recommended by their healthcare provider.Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA is contraindicated for use in children <= 18 years of age. Because endogenous DHEA, DHEAS, and androsteindione serum concentrations are related to the onset of puberty, there is concern that the use of DHEA supplements in children or adolescents would interfere with natural growth and sexual maturation.Females of childbearing age with infertility due to hyperandrogenism or chronic anovulation should not take DHEA supplements. The relationship of DHEA and DHEAS to ovulation and fertility is complex and still poorly understood. However, women with hirsutism and infertility or polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) are commonly found to have elevated endogenous DHEA or DHEAS serum concentrations on assay. Women with higher serum levels of endogenous DHEAS and who are receiving fertility treatments have been noted to have higher rates of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) associated with their treatments. DHEA may also induce changes in the normal menstrual cycle in women of childbearing age.Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA should be considered a pregnancy category X drug. Studies of the role of endogenous fetal and maternal DHEA in pregnancy indicate that the ratio of DHEA or DHEAS to other hormones in the serum or placenta may influence the processes of fetal development, parturition, and labor. Endogenous DHEA and DHEAS appear to be important in the functional development of the adrenal cortex and other endocrine activities in the fetus; it is assummed that exogenous DHEA supplementation to a pregnant woman could potentially have deleterious effects on fetal development or viability. In addition, the androgenic effects of DHEA could potentially result in masculinization of a female fetus. No controlled trials of DHEA in primate or human gestation exist. Do not administer DHEA to a pregnant woman.DHEA is a hormone and should not be supplemented in a lactating woman who is breast-feeding her infant. Most hormones are excreted in breast milk. It is unknown what effect DHEA would have on the breast-feeding infant or on the process of proper lactation.Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA should be considered contraindicated for use in patients with hepatic disease, hepatitis, hepatocellular cancer, or jaundice. In 1984, the FDA banned the non-prescription (OTC) sale of DHEA due to concern over its ability to cause hepatotoxicity. DHEA supplements are now able to be sold as "nutritional supplements" secondary to the US Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA) of 1994, and are no longer regulated as drugs outside of clinical trials. Transient drug-induced hepatitis has been reported in association with the use of DHEA nutritional supplements. Because both estrogens and androgens may exacerbate acute intermittent or variegate hepatic porphyria, DHEA, which has androgenic actions, should be used with caution in patients with these diseases.Treatment of patients with diabetes mellitus with DHEA is currently not warranted. The role of endogenous DHEA in relationship to insulin resistance is not clear. DHEA and DHEAS may not be mediators of insulin action. Long-term trials evaluating the effectiveness and safety of exogenous DHEA supplementation in patients with diabetes are currently unavailable. Patients with diabetes mellitus who are pursuing the use of DHEA supplements should see a qualified health care professional.DHEA treatment of patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection should be approached with caution. DHEA may possess immunomodulating effects, perhaps by enhancing the secretion of IL-2 from activated T cells as demonstrated in murine models. While this suggests that DHEA may play a role in the function of the immune system, the role of DHEA supplementation in the treatment of human HIV infection, especially acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), has not yet been determined. Safety and efficacy have not been established.Most non-essential hormones are discontinued several weeks prior to major surgery where feasible. DHEA may inhibit platelet aggregation, an effect that may be important to consider during surgical procedures. The decision of when to resume DHEA after surgery would be based on the perceived additional risk from DHEA use and the need for DHEA therapy.Soy oil is the raw product from which many DHEA supplements are manufactured. Cholesterol from soy oil is converted into DHEA. DHEA products should be used cautiously in patients with a history of allergies to soy-containing foods or who exhibit immediate-type soya lecithin hypersensitivity.One of the functions of endogenous DHEA is to inhibit the enzyme glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. Use DHEA with caution in patients with G6PD deficiency.Dehydroepiandrosterone (free and sulfate) test systems measure dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulfate (DHEAS) in urine, serum, plasma, and amniotic fluid. These measurements are used in the diagnosis and treatment of DHEA-secreting adrenal cancers. It is unclear at this time if supplementation with DHEA would result in false-positives of these tests.Prasterone (DHEA) should be used with caution in patients with bipolar disorder. One case report exists of the appearance of mania in a predisposed patient consuming large doses of a DHEA supplement on a routine basis. Until more information is known, clinicians should be aware that emotional lability or changes in mood may occur in selected patients.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    This product has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration for safety and efficacy and is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
    Headline
    labor, pregnancy
    General Information
    Do not administer DHEA dietary supplements to a pregnant woman. Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA dietary supplements are not recommended during pregnancy, similar to other androgenic hormones. Studies of the role of endogenous fetal and maternal DHEA in pregnancy indicate that the ratio of DHEA or DHEAS to other hormones in the serum or placenta may influence the processes of fetal development, pregnancy progression, and parturition (labor). Endogenous DHEA and DHEAS appear to be important in the functional development of the adrenal cortex and other endocrine activities in the fetus; it is assumed that exogenous DHEA supplementation to a pregnant woman could potentially have deleterious effects on fetal development or viability. The androgenic effects of DHEA could potentially result in masculinization of a female fetus. No controlled trials of DHEA in primate or human gestation exist.
    Headline
    abnormal uterine bleeding, breast cancer, prostate cancer, prostatic hypertrophy
    General Information
    Use DHEA with caution in women with a history of breast cancer or in those with abnormal uterine bleeding of undetermined origin. Avoid use of DHEA in men with prostate cancer or symptoms of prostatic hypertrophy. DHEA is a steroid hormone precursor that can be metabolized into estrogens and androgens, which may theoretically stimulate the growth of hormone-dependent tumors.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA, or prasterone dietary supplements are not recommended during breast-feeding. There are no adequate studies of the effect of DHEA on lactation or on a breast-fed infant. Most hormones are excreted in breast milk. Like other androgenic hormones, it is possible that DHEA could inhibit lactation. It is unknown what effect DHEA would have on the breast-fed infant.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Do not administer DHEA dietary supplements to a pregnant woman. Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA dietary supplements are not recommended during pregnancy, similar to other androgenic hormones. Studies of the role of endogenous fetal and maternal DHEA in pregnancy indicate that the ratio of DHEA or DHEAS to other hormones in the serum or placenta may influence the processes of fetal development, pregnancy progression, and parturition (labor). Endogenous DHEA and DHEAS appear to be important in the functional development of the adrenal cortex and other endocrine activities in the fetus; it is assumed that exogenous DHEA supplementation to a pregnant woman could potentially have deleterious effects on fetal development or viability. The androgenic effects of DHEA could potentially result in masculinization of a female fetus. No controlled trials of DHEA in primate or human gestation exist.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Anastrozole: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA is converted via hydrosteroid dehydrogenases and aromatase into androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol by peripheral tissues. Prasterone or DHEA supplements should not be given concurrently with any aromatase inhibitors, as DHEA could interfere with the pharmacologic action of the aromatase inhibitor and compromise aromatase inhibitor effectiveness. Conversely, aromatase inhibitors (e.g., aminoglutethimide, anastrozole, exemestane, letrozole, testolactone, vorozole) could interfere with biotransformation of DHEA.
Anticoagulants: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Antithrombin III: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Apixaban: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Argatroban: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Aromatase Inhibitors: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA is converted via hydrosteroid dehydrogenases and aromatase into androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol by peripheral tissues. Prasterone or DHEA supplements should not be given concurrently with any aromatase inhibitors, as DHEA could interfere with the pharmacologic action of the aromatase inhibitor and compromise aromatase inhibitor effectiveness. Conversely, aromatase inhibitors (e.g., aminoglutethimide, anastrozole, exemestane, letrozole, testolactone, vorozole) could interfere with biotransformation of DHEA.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments. (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Benzodiazepines: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Bivalirudin: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Cetrorelix: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA is converted via hydrosteroid dehydrogenases and aromatase into androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol by peripheral tissues. DHEA is a weak androgen that has complex hormonal effects. It is unclear what actions prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA would have on other exogenous hormonal regimens. It would seem prudent to not administer DHEA with infertility or hormonal cancer treatments such as GnRH analogs (cetrorelix, ganirelix, goserelin, histrelin, leuprolide, or triptorelin) since DHEA may theoretically interfere with these therapies.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
clomiPHENE: (Major) In women, androgens may antagonize the effects of some fertility treatments. Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA is converted via hydrosteroid dehydrogenases and aromatase into androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol by peripheral tissues. Increased endogenous levels of the hormone prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA have been associated with hyperandrogenism and infertility; it is postulated that nutritional supplementation with DHEA may reduce the response to clomiphene treatment.
clonazePAM: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Clorazepate: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Androgens may increase concentrations of cyclosporine, potentially increasing the risk of nephrotoxicity. Until further data are available, close monitoring of cyclosporine serum concentrations is prudent during coadministration with androgens.
Dabigatran: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Dalteparin: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Degarelix: (Major) Concomitant use of androgens with degarelix is relatively contraindicated, as androgens could counteract the therapeutic effect of degarelix.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
diazePAM: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Edoxaban: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Enoxaparin: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Estazolam: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Esterified Estrogens: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy.
Estradiol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Estrogens: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Etonogestrel: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Exemestane: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA is converted via hydrosteroid dehydrogenases and aromatase into androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol by peripheral tissues. Prasterone or DHEA supplements should not be given concurrently with any aromatase inhibitors, as DHEA could interfere with the pharmacologic action of the aromatase inhibitor and compromise aromatase inhibitor effectiveness. Conversely, aromatase inhibitors (e.g., aminoglutethimide, anastrozole, exemestane, letrozole, testolactone, vorozole) could interfere with biotransformation of DHEA.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Flurazepam: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Fondaparinux: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Ganirelix: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA is converted via hydrosteroid dehydrogenases and aromatase into androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol by peripheral tissues. DHEA is a weak androgen that has complex hormonal effects. It is unclear what actions prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA would have on other exogenous hormonal regimens. It would seem prudent to not administer DHEA with infertility or hormonal cancer treatments such as GnRH analogs (cetrorelix, ganirelix, goserelin, histrelin, leuprolide, or triptorelin) since DHEA may theoretically interfere with these therapies.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of androgens with gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists such as goserelin. Goserelin inhibits steroidogenesis; concomitant use with androgens may counteract this therapeutic effect.
Heparin: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Histrelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of androgens with gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists such as histrelin. Histrelin inhibits steroidogenesis; concomitant use with androgens may counteract this therapeutic effect.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
HYDROXYprogesterone: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Insulins: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Letrozole: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA is converted via hydrosteroid dehydrogenases and aromatase into androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol by peripheral tissues. Prasterone or DHEA supplements should not be given concurrently with any aromatase inhibitors, as DHEA could interfere with the pharmacologic action of the aromatase inhibitor and compromise aromatase inhibitor effectiveness. Conversely, aromatase inhibitors (e.g., aminoglutethimide, anastrozole, exemestane, letrozole, testolactone, vorozole) could interfere with biotransformation of DHEA.
Leuprolide: (Major) Leuprolide inhibits steroidogenesis. While no drug interactions have been reported with leuprolide, therapy with androgens would be relatively contraindicated and would counteract the therapeutic effect of leuprolide.
Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
LORazepam: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Midazolam: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Nafarelin: (Major) Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists (i.e.,nafarelin) inhibit steroidogenesis, therefore the concomitant use of these agents with androgens may counteract this therapeutic effect. Avoid concurrent use of androgens with GnRH agonists.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Norethindrone: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Norgestrel: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Oxazepam: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Pentosan: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Progesterone: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Progestins: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Quazepam: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Remimazolam: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA is converted via hydrosteroid dehydrogenases and aromatase into androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol by peripheral tissues. Prasterone or DHEA supplements should not be given concurrently with any aromatase inhibitors, as DHEA could interfere with the pharmacologic action of the aromatase inhibitor and compromise aromatase inhibitor effectiveness. Conversely, aromatase inhibitors (e.g., aminoglutethimide, anastrozole, exemestane, letrozole, testolactone, vorozole) could interfere with biotransformation of DHEA.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Saw Palmetto, Serenoa repens: (Major) Drug interactions with Saw palmetto, Serenoa repens have not been specifically studied or reported. Saw palmetto extracts appear to have antiandrogenic effects. The antiandrogenic effects of Saw palmetto, Serenoa repens would be expected to antagonize the actions of androgens; it would seem illogical for patients taking androgens to use this herbal supplement.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with estrogen therapy. (Moderate) Either additive or antagonistic effects could potentially occur if prasterone is combined with progestins.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Soy Isoflavones: (Moderate) Theoretically, the soy isoflavones may counteract the activity of the androgens.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Temazepam: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Corticosteroids blunt the adrenal secretion of endogenous DHEA and DHEAS, resulting in reduced DHEA and DHEAS serum concentrations.
Triazolam: (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Triptorelin: (Major) Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists (i.e.,triptorelin) inhibit steroidogenesis, therefore the concomitant use of these agents with androgens may counteract this therapeutic effect. Avoid concurrent use of androgens with GnRH agonists.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Warfarin: (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: Some prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA preparations are a combination of several hormones and/or herbs, and each individual component may need to be evaluated in the presence of adverse reactions. Only adverse reactions pertaining to DHEA are discussed in this monograph.NOTE: Although DHEA is sold as a nutritional supplement, patients should not regard it as without potential for causing serious adverse effects. The adverse effects of exogenous DHEA supplementation have not been evaluated in large, controlled, clinical trials. Human side-effect data to date have been collected in non-systematic fashion via the FDA special nutritional adverse effect monitoring system (SNAEMS) or small clinical trials.In females:In one 3-month study of 28 women with SLE, the following ADRs were noted in the patients receiving DHEA: acneiform rash (57%), hirsutism (14%), weight gain (14%), menstrual irregularity (7%), and emotional lability (7%). The statistical significance of these side effects relative to placebo was not determined. Some events commonly associated with SLE and reported as adverse events in clinical trials were less frequent in patients treated with prasterone (GL701) compared with placebo, including muscle pain, nasal and mouth ulcers, and hair loss (manufacturer information).When androgens are given to women, they may cause virilization, manifested by clitoromegaly, reduced breast size, and deepening of the voice or voice hoarseness. If treatment is discontinued when these symptoms first appear, they usually subside. Prolonged treatment with androgenic substances can lead to irreversible masculinity, so the benefit of DHEA treatment should be offset against the risk of androgen-like side effects.The effect of DHEA supplementation on normal endocrine processes in women is not clear. Women should report any menstrual changes, including amenorrhea, unusual vaginal bleeding, dysmenorrhea, or abdominal bloating to their health care providers. Breast changes, including breast discharge, breast enlargement, breast tenderness, or galactorrhea should also be reported.DHEA is an androgenic hormone and may potentially cause teratogenesis or changes the abilty to conceive or carry a viable pregnancy. DHEA should be considered a FDA pregnancy risk category X agent at this time. If pregnancy is suspected, pregnancy should be ruled out before continuing DHEA use.In males:Male patients may experience feminization during prolonged therapy with DHEA, which is believed to result from inhibition of gonadotropin secretion and conversion of testosterone to estrogens. These effects include mastalgia and gynecomastia. Feminizing effects secondary to androgens are generally reversible. Inhibition of testicular function, testicular atrophy, and impotence can also occur. Exacerbations of acne, resembling acne vulgaris, may also occur. Symptoms of urinary retention or urinary urgency, prostate pain, or signs of an enlarged prostate in a DHEA-treated male should prompt withdrawal of DHEA and clinical evaluation.In men and women:Mild peripheral edema can occur with DHEA use as the result of increased fluid retention (in association with sodium retention) and may be associated with mild weight gain.Prasterone (DHEA) may cause emotional lability. At least one case of possible DHEA-induced mania has been reported in the literature, in a patient predisposed to bipolar illness who was consuming doses >= 300 mg/day PO on a routine basis. There was a temporal association between the time of drug use and the appearance of manic symptoms. Clinicians should be alert to possible alterations in psychiatric status in patients taking this medication for supplemental or medicinal purposes.Hepatic dysfunction can occur from use of androgenic steroids, especially the oral 17-alpha-alkylandrogens (e.g., methyltestosterone). DHEA does not contain the 17-alkyl group in its structure, however, transient cases of drug-induced hepatitis in humans have been reported in association with DHEA use; these have included a few reports to the FDA Special Nutritionals Adverse Event Monitoring System (SN/AEMS). Liver toxicity has not been reported in human studies, but elevated hepatic transaminases have been reported and confirmed upon rechallenge in some trials. In 1984, the FDA banned the non-prescription (OTC) sale of DHEA due to concern over hepatitis. Clastogenesis has been noted in hepatic tissues of animals exposed to DHEA. DHEA appears to act as a perisoxome proliferator, resulting in liver tumors and nodules in the periportal areas of the liver lobule in rats. DHEA should be discontinued in any patient developing signs or symptoms of potential liver problems, including elevated hepatic enzymes, continued nausea/vomiting, fatigue, jaundice, or severe abdominal pain. The patient should be evaluated.The effect of DHEA on the progression of hormonally-dependent tumors in males or females, or the risk of secondary malignancy, such as breast cancer, is not known. One case-control study of women with ovarian cancer demonstrated higher serum androstenedione and DHEA/DHEAS levels in patients with ovarian tumors versus controls. Whether DHEA supplementation would be associated with similar the serum hormonal profiles is unknown. Male breast cancer, prostate cancer and prostatic hypertrophy can develop due to endocrine epithelial cell growth during therapy with androgens. One case report has been published of a patient with advanced prostate cancer who was symptomatically treated with DHEA. The patient experienced a "flare" of his cancer during the treatment period. A causal relationship has not been established. Widespread use of DHEA supplements in men or women should be discouraged until more is known about potential secondary malignancy risks.In studies of male patients with HIV virus infection, side effects attributed to DHEA treatments and confirmed upon rechallenge included nasal congestion, fatigue, headache, and mild insomnia.DHEA therapy is proported to cause libido increase. No objective evidence of this side effect exists at this time.DHEA has been observed to cause reversible reductions in HDL cholesterol and total cholesterol in some clinical trials; other trials have not noted changes in the serum lipid profile. DHEA may also exhibit anti-platelet effects. The influence of these changes on the development of side effects, atherosclerosis, or other cardiac-related endpoints is unknown.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: Some prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA preparations are a combination of several hormones and/or herbs, and each individual component may need to be evaluated in the presence of adverse reactions. Only adverse reactions pertaining to DHEA are discussed in this monograph. Human side-effect data to date have been collected in non-systematic fashion via the FDA special nutritional adverse effect monitoring system (SNAEMS) or relatively small clinical trials.
 
DHEA has been observed to cause reversible reductions in HDL cholesterol and total cholesterol in some clinical trials; other trials have not noted changes in the serum lipid profile. DHEA may also exhibit anti-platelet effects. The influence of these changes on the development of side effects, atherosclerosis, or other cardiac-related endpoints is unknown.
    Headline
    acneiform rash, emotional lability, hirsutism, menstrual irregularity
    General Information
    In one 3-month study of 28 women with SLE, the following ADRs were noted in the females receiving DHEA: acneiform rash (57%), hirsutism (14%), weight gain (14%), menstrual irregularity (7%), and emotional lability (7%). The statistical significance of these side effects relative to placebo was not determined. Some events commonly associated with SLE and reported as adverse events in clinical trials were less frequent in patients treated with prasterone (GL701) compared with placebo, including muscle pain, nasal and oral ulceration, and hair loss.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hirsutism
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      menstrual irregularity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    clitoromegaly, hoarseness, virilization
    General Information
    Prasterone, DHEA is a hormone with androgenic actions, however, the incidence of androgenic side effects is not known. When androgens are given to women, they may cause virilization, manifested by clitoromegaly, reduced breast size, and deepening of the voice or voice hoarseness. If treatment is discontinued when these symptoms first appear, they usually subside. Prolonged treatment with androgenic substances can lead to irreversible masculinity, so the benefit of DHEA treatment should be offset against the risk of androgen-like side effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      clitoromegaly
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hoarseness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      virilization
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    amenorrhea, breast discharge, breast enlargement, dysmenorrhea, galactorrhea, vaginal bleeding
    General Information
    The effect of prasterone or DHEA supplementation on normal endocrine processes in women is not clear. Women should report any menstrual changes, including amenorrhea, unusual vaginal bleeding, dysmenorrhea, or abdominal bloating to their health care providers. Breast changes, including breast discharge, breast enlargement, breast tenderness, or galactorrhea should also be reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amenorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      breast discharge
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      breast enlargement
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysmenorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      galactorrhea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, gynecomastia
    General Information
    Prasterone (DHEA) has androgenic actions, and it is not clear what effect prasterone may have in male patients. Similar to female patients, male patients may experience worsening of acne vulgaris. Male patients may theoretically experience feminization during prolonged therapy with DHEA resulting from inhibition of gonadotropin secretion and conversion of testosterone to estrogens. Feminizing effects in males might include gynecomastia. Feminizing effects secondary to androgens are generally reversible. It is not clear if DHEA would affect testicular function or prostatic function. Symptoms of urinary retention or urinary urgency, prostate pain, or signs of an enlarged prostate in a male patient should prompt clinical evaluation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      gynecomastia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    fluid retention, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Mild peripheral edema can occur with DHEA use as the result of increased fluid retention (in association with sodium retention) and may be associated with mild weight gain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fluid retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    mania
    General Information
    Prasterone (DHEA) may cause emotional lability. At least one case of possible DHEA-induced mania has been reported in the literature, in a patient predisposed to bipolar illness who was consuming doses greater than or equal to 300 mg/day PO on a routine basis. There was a temporal association between the time of drug use and the appearance of manic symptoms. Clinicians should be alert to possible alterations in psychiatric status in patients taking this medication for supplemental or medicinal purposes.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, clastogenesis, elevated hepatic enzymes, fatigue, hepatitis, jaundice, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Hepatic dysfunction can occur from use of androgenic steroids, especially the oral 17-alpha-alkylandrogens (e.g., methyltestosterone). DHEA does not contain the 17-alkyl group in its structure, however, transient cases of drug-induced hepatitis in humans have been reported in association with DHEA use; these have included a few reports to the FDA Special Nutritionals Adverse Event Monitoring System (SN/AEMS). Liver toxicity has not been reported in human studies, but elevated hepatic transaminases have been reported and confirmed upon rechallenge in some trials. In 1984, the FDA banned the non-prescription (OTC) sale of DHEA due to concern over hepatitis. Clastogenesis has been noted in hepatic tissues of animals exposed to DHEA. DHEA appears to act as a perisoxome proliferator, resulting in liver tumors and nodules in the periportal areas of the liver lobule in rats. DHEA should be discontinued in any patient developing signs or symptoms of potential liver problems, including elevated hepatic enzymes, continued nausea and vomiting, fatigue, jaundice, or severe abdominal pain; the patient should be evaluated.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      clastogenesis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    headache, insomnia, nasal congestion
    General Information
    In studies of male patients with HIV virus infection, side effects attributed to DHEA treatments and confirmed upon rechallenge included nasal congestion, fatigue, headache, and mild insomnia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    libido increase
    General Information
    Prasterone (DHEA) therapy is reported to cause libido increase. No objective evidence of this side effect exists at this time.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    new primary malignancy
    General Information
    The effect of DHEA on the progression of hormonally-dependent tumors in males or females, or the risk of new primary malignancy, such as breast cancer, is not known. One case-control study of women with ovarian cancer demonstrated higher serum androstenedione and DHEA/DHEAS levels in patients with ovarian tumors versus controls. Whether DHEA supplementation would be associated with similar the serum hormonal profiles is unknown. Male breast cancer, prostate cancer and prostatic hypertrophy can develop due to endocrine epithelial cell growth during therapy with androgens. One case report has been published of a patient with advanced prostate cancer who was symptomatically treated with DHEA. The patient experienced a "flare" of his cancer during the treatment period. A causal relationship has not been established. Widespread use of DHEA supplements in men or women should be discouraged until more is known about potential new primary malignancy risks.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    teratogenesis
    General Information
    Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is an androgenic hormone and may potentially cause teratogenesis or changes the ability to conceive or carry a viable pregnancy. Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA should be considered contraindicated in pregnancy, similar to other androgenic hormones. It is assumed that exogenous DHEA supplementation to a pregnant woman could potentially have deleterious effects on fetal development or viability. No controlled trials of DHEA in primate or human gestation exist. If pregnancy is suspected, pregnancy should be ruled out before continuing DHEA use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      teratogenesis
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  NOTE: In the U.S., nutraceuticals are marketed under the Dietary Supplement and Health Education Act of 1994 (DSHEA). Dietary Supplements are not regulated as drugs. Consumers should also note that rigid quality control standards are not required for nutraceuticals and substantial variability can occur in both the potency and the purity of these products. Monographs on nutraceuticals are included in CP when reliable clinical data are available. The information presented below is condensed from the best clinical data we could find.
 
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), also known as prasterone, is a C19 steroid also known as 5-androsten-3 beta-ol-17-one. DHEA and DHEAS (an active, sulfated form of DHEA), are endogenous hormones secreted by the adrenal cortex in primates and a few non-primate species in response to ACTH. DHEA is a steroid precursor of both androgens and estrogens. Synthetic DHEA is marketed as a dietary supplement. There is currently no objective, well-controlled, large-scale, scientific evidence to back claims that taking DHEA combats the signs or symptoms of aging, diabetes, neurologic disease, sexual dysfunction, or heart disease. Some athletes abuse DHEA believing that it can enhance the body's synthesis of testosterone; the potential action of DHEA as an anabolic steroid has lead to the prohibition of supplementation in competitive sport, even though evidence of anabolic effects in athletes is lacking. DHEA is also abused by athletes in an attempt to normalize the testosterone:epitestosterone ratio. However, the sensitivity and specificity of currently available testing for athletic 'doping' can readily identify the presence of banned substances, including testosterone. Many of the trials of DHEA supplementation to date have lacked the rigor and statistical applications needed to support therapeutic claims. In 1984, the FDA banned the non-prescription (OTC) sale of exogenous DHEA due to concern over hepatotoxicity (hepatitis and hepatic tumors) noted in animal studies. The FDA formally relegated DHEA to a Category II OTC ingredient at that time (i.e., not generally recognized as safe and effective, or "not GRAS"). However in 1994, the passage of the US Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA) allowed DHEA to be marketed as a nutritional or dietary supplement. Several prasterone (DHEA) proprietary products have sought FDA-approval. An NDA was submitted in the year 2000 for a proprietary prasterone product (Prestara, formerly known Aslera or GL-701), for patients with mild-to-moderate systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE); however, the FDA issued a 'not approvable' letter since thetrial data for SLE did not meet the primary end point. Now known as Prastera Kit, this prasterone dietary supplement is packaged with ibuprofen, but the prasterone within the kit is NOT an FDA-approved drug product. In August 2003, Paladin Labs Inc., received orphan drug designation from the FDA for dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), under the brand name Fidelin, for replacement therapy in patients with adrenal insufficiency; however, the product remains investigational for this use and is not FDA-approved.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), also known as prasterone, is a C19 steroid also known as 5-androsten-3 beta-ol-17-one. DHEA and DHEAS (an active, sulfated form of DHEA), are endogenous hormones secreted by the adrenal cortex in primates and a few non-primate species in response to ACTH. DHEA is a steroid precursor of both androgens and estrogens, and thus is often called 'the mother hormone'. Endogenous DHEA is thought to be important in several endocrine processes. Researchers continue to investigate the role of both endogenous and exogenous DHEA in CNS, psychiatric, endocrine, gynecologic and obstetric, immune, and cardiovascular functions. Researchers still have much to discover in regards to its physiologic effects in males and females. Less is known regarding the mechanisms of action of exogenously administered DHEA.
CNS actions: Both DHEA and DHEAS may be synthesized de-novo by the central nervous system, and concentrations of DHEA and DHEAS are higher in the brain than in other organs. The 2 neurohormones appear to have excitatory activity at both GABA and NMDA receptors.
Dermatologic actions after burn injury: Animal studies have suggested that DHEA and DHEAS expedite the re-epithelialization of donor skin-graft sites.
Endocrine actions: Endogenous DHEA is synthesized by the conversion of cholesterol via CYP11A1 to pregnenolone, followed by CYP17 conversion to DHEA and then to DHEAS via dehydroepiandrosterone sulfatransferase. The synthesis of DHEA occurs exclusively in the adrenal cortex in women, while in men 10—25% of DHEA is synthesized by the testes and roughly 80% of the DHEA comes from the adrenal glands. DHEA is converted via hydrosteroid dehydrogenases and aromatase into androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol by peripheral tissues. DHEA is of only minor importance as an androgenic substance itself. The production rate of DHEA by the body changes dramatically throughout life, typically peaking at adrenarche, the adrenal contribution to the onset of puberty. In males, DHEA serum levels are high in neonates right after birth, rapidly fall within 5 months, then begin to rise at the age of 9 years. Endogenous DHEA concentration then peaks again in males at roughly the 20th to 30th years of life. In females, DHEA serum levels are high in neonates right after birth, rapidly fall within 5 months, then begin to rise at the age of 7 years. Endogenous DHEA concentration then peaks again in females at roughly the 20th and 40th year of life. DHEA levels decline steadily after the fifth decade in both males and females. DHEAS concentrations in males and females follow similar patterns. The administration of DHEA supplements results in different hormonal concentration changes in males and females; the actions are dependent on the dose, formulation and route of administration, and age of the person receiving the DHEA.
Hemostasis: Inhibition of platelet aggregation by exogenous DHEA has been demonstrated in vivo in humans; DHEA either prolonged or completely inhibited the rate of arachidonate-stimulated platelet aggregation after 14 days of administration. The degree of inhibition of platelet aggregation was noted to be time and dose dependent.
Immunologic actions: Because SLE occurs more frequently in women than men and because SLE is known to worsen during pregnancy, a hormonal etiology is suspected for this disease. DHEA up-regulates interleukin-2 (IL-2) production by T-lymphocytes in murine lupus models and reverses the clinical autoimmune disease. Lower endogenous levels of DHEA and DHEAS have been noted in both male and female patients with lupus at the time of diagnosis. Chronic corticosteroid treatment, which may cause adrenal atrophy, contributes to reduced DHEA levels in these patients. Supplementation of DHEA in SLE may augment immune system activity and potentially offset the undesired effects of chronic corticosteroid use in these patients. Exact mechanisms of DHEA on immune function are not yet clear. DHEA has been shown to increase the numbers of natural killer cells in aging women. Serum DHEA levels are observed to be reduced in age-related and other immunodeficiency, suggesting that DHEA may serve as a marker of the integrity of the immune system..

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Micronization appears to enhance oral absorption and may influence the metabolic conversion of DHEA to the various sex hormones in men and women. After oral dosing, elevations in serum concentrations of DHEA and DHEAS, above endogenous levels, persist for 12 hours.
  Text
  DHEA has been administered via intravenous, subcutaneous, percutaneous, vaginal, topical or oral routes in clinical trials. As a nutritional supplement, DHEA is most commonly administered by the oral route. Many DHEA products available as nutritional supplements contain varied amounts of DHEA and do not appear to be manufactured according to good manufacturing processes (GMP). Using HPLC techniques, one study found that only 7 out of the 16 assayed products contained DHEA within a 10% variation of the labeled content. Some products contained no detectable DHEA.
 
The literature is lacking in pharmacokinetic studies using serial serum sampling of DHEA after supplementation. In the body, DHEA and DHEAS are widely distributed, converted to the sex hormones in peripheral tissues, and appear to cross the blood-brain barrier. The serum pharmacokinetic parameters and metabolism of DHEA and DHEAS following administration may vary among persons of different sex and age groups and the dose or route of administration. Quantification of DHEA to aide in detection of abuse by athletes may soon be accomplished. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) can evidently detect DHEA metabolites in the urine within 8 hours of a single oral dose of 50 mg. Within 24 hours, 50—75% of an oral DHEA dose is recovered as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates, androsterone, and etiocholanone in the urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes and drug transporters: Data not available.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Since many hormones cause nausea after oral administration, it may be helpful to take prasterone, DHEA with meals to minimize indigestion or GI irritation.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Maximum dosage information is not available.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    Maximum dosage information is not available.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Do not use. Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  DHEA is not recommended for use in patients with hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
