=== Rilzabrutinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5625)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Rilzabrutinib is an oral kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of persistent or chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in adults who have had an insufficient response to a previous treatment.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 800 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cough, infection, pharyngitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Avoid rilzabrutinib use in individuals with moderate hepatic impairment or hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class B or Child-Pugh...

Brand Names
  - WAYRILZ

Dosage Forms
  - WAYRILZ 400mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        400 mg PO twice daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustment may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of persistent or chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) in individuals with an insufficient response to a previous treatment

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid rilzabrutinib use in individuals with moderate hepatic impairment or hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class B or Child-Pugh class C) due to the potential for increased rilzabrutinib exposure. Evaluate bilirubin and liver transaminases at baseline and as clinically indicated during rilzabrutinib treatment.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Avoid rilzabrutinib use in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure. Rilzabrutinib has not been studied in individuals with severe renal impairment (i.e., CrCl less than 46 mL/minute).
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available clinical data on the use of rilzabrutinib during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal of fetal outcomes. Based on animal data, rilzabrutinib may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential risk to a fetus. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of rilzabrutinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at exposures 4- to 10-times the human exposure (based on AUC) at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 400 mg twice daily did not cause adverse developmental effects. However, adverse visceral and skeletal findings occurred in rat fetuses at a maternally toxic dose at exposures 22-times the human exposure (based on AUC) at the MRHD.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Rilzabrutinib may be associated with reproductive risk. Verify pregnancy status of people who may become pregnant prior to initiating rilzabrutinib treatment. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception during rilzabrutinib treatment and for 1 week after the final dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of rilzabrutinib or its metabolites in either human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Due to the potential for adverse reactions in a breastfed child from rilzabrutinib, avoid breast-feeding while taking rilzabrutinib and for at least 1 week after the final dose.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available clinical data on the use of rilzabrutinib during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal of fetal outcomes. Based on animal data, rilzabrutinib may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential risk to a fetus. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of rilzabrutinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at exposures 4- to 10-times the human exposure (based on AUC) at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 400 mg twice daily did not cause adverse developmental effects. However, adverse visceral and skeletal findings occurred in rat fetuses at a maternally toxic dose at exposures 22-times the human exposure (based on AUC) at the MRHD.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of rilzabrutinib or its metabolites in either human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Due to the potential for adverse reactions in a breastfed child from rilzabrutinib, avoid breast-feeding while taking rilzabrutinib and for at least 1 week after the final dose.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for dolutegravir-related adverse effects during concomitant use with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Abemaciclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with rilzabrutinib may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and adagrasib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of rilzabrutinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with rilzabrutinib due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with rilzabrutinib due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and rilzabrutinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with rilzabrutinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amiodarone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiodarone exposure. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP, P-gp, and OATP1B1/3 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a BCRP, P-gp, and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Antacids: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Both rilzabrutinib and aprepitant/fosaprepitant are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold, while coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased aprepitant overall exposure by 2-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of rilzabrutinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus rilzabrutinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids, such as oral sodium bicarbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Atogepant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and rilzabrutinib is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP, P-gp, and OATP1B1/3 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a BCRP, P-gp, and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and avacopan due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Avanafil: (Major) Do not exceed an avanafil dose of 50 mg once every 24 hours in patients receiving rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase avanafil exposure. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Administration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the avanafil AUC by 3-fold and prolonged the half-life to approximately 8 hours.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with rilzabrutinib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and berotralstat due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and bosentan due to the risk for a decrease in rilzabrutinib exposure, potentially reducing its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase bosentan exposure, increasing the risk for bosentan-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor while bosentan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Bosutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bosutinib and rilzabrutinib as bosutinib plasma exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of bosutinib adverse events (e.g., myelosuppression, GI toxicity). Bosutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The Cmax and AUC values of bosutinib were increased 1.5-fold and 2-fold, respectively, when bosutinib 500 mg PO was administered with a single dose of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of rilzabrutinib with brexpiprazole is necessary, as the systemic exposure of brexpiprazole may be increased resulting in an increase in brexpiprazole-related adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of brexpiprazole to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose if brexpiprazole and rilzabrutinib are coadministered with a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP2D6 or if the patient is a poor metabolizer of CYP2D6. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, adjust the brexpiprazole dosage to its original level. Brexpiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the exposure of brexpiprazole compared to use of brexpiprazole alone.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with rilzabrutinib if possible due to increased plasma exposure of brigatinib; an increase in brigatinib-related adverse reactions may occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of brigatinib by approximately 40% without breaking tablets (i.e., from 180 mg to 120 mg; from 120 mg to 90 mg; from 90 mg to 60 mg). Brigatinib is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 40%.
Brincidofovir: (Moderate) Postpone the administration of rilzabrutinib for at least three hours after brincidofovir administration and increase monitoring for brincidofovir-related adverse reactions (i.e., elevated hepatic enzymes and bilirubin, diarrhea, other gastrointestinal adverse events) if concomitant use of brincidofovir and rilzabrutinib is necessary. Brincidofovir is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, the mean AUC and Cmax of brincidofovir increased by 374% and 269%, respectively, when administered with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Bromocriptine: (Major) Reduce the bromocriptine dosage during concomitant use with rilzabrutinib; bromocriptine dosage reduction recommendations vary by indication and dosage form. For the treatment of type 2 diabetes with micronized bromocriptine quick-release tablets, do not exceed a bromocriptine dosage of 1.6 mg once daily. For all other indications and dosage forms, reduce the initial bromocriptine dosage to 1.25 mg once daily and reduce the maximum bromocriptine dosage to: 3.75 mg once daily for hyperprolactinemia-associated dysfunction, 2.5 mg once daily for prolactin-secreting adenomas, 25 mg once daily for acromegaly, and 12.5 mg twice daily for idiopathic or postencephalitic parkinsonism. Concomitant use may increase bromocriptine exposure. Bromocriptine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased bromocriptine exposure by up to 3.7-fold.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with rilzabrutinib due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with rilzabrutinib due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with rilzabrutinib due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and rilzabrutinib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when rilzabrutinib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping rilzabrutinib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and rilzabrutinib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when rilzabrutinib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping rilzabrutinib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in buspirone-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary; the effect may be more pronounced if the patient has been titrated to a stable dose of buspirone and rilzabrutinib is added or removed from therapy. Buspirone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased buspirone exposure by 3.4- to 6-fold and was accompanied by increased buspirone-related adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and H2-blockers if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering rilzabrutinib 2 hours before an H2-blocker mitigates this interaction and has been observed to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 28%.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Capivasertib: (Major) Reduce the dose of capivasertib to 320 mg PO twice daily for 4 days followed by 3 days off if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary; monitor for adverse reactions. Concomitant use may increase capivasertib exposure which may increase the risk for capivasertib-related adverse effects. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of capivasertib by up to 1.5-fold.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, potentially reducing rilzabrutinib efficacy, and may increase carbamazepine exposure, increasing the risk for carbamazepine-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Cariprazine: (Major) A cariprazine dosage reduction may be required during concomitant use with rilzabrutinib. Cariprazine dosage modification recommendations vary by indication, previous exposure to cariprazine, and age. When initiating cariprazine in adults receiving rilzabrutinib, reduce the cariprazine starting dose to 0.75 mg PO once daily; in adults with schizophrenia or bipolar mania, the cariprazine dose may be increased to 1.5 mg PO once daily, if needed, based on clinical response. Avoid initiating cariprazine in pediatric patients receiving rilzabrutinib. When adding rilzabrutinib to a stable dose of cariprazine, reduce the cariprazine dosage: from 1.5 mg or 3 mg once daily to 0.75 mg once daily, from 4.5 or 6 mg once daily to 1.5 mg once daily. Concomitant use increases cariprazine exposure and the risk for cariprazine-related adverse effects. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased cariprazine overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of rilzabrutinib, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ceritinib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cilostazol: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with rilzabrutinib and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and H2-blockers if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering rilzabrutinib 2 hours before an H2-blocker mitigates this interaction and has been observed to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 28%.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ciprofloxacin due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and rilzabrutinib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for increased sedation and respiratory depression if clonazepam is coadministered with rilzabrutinib; adjust the dose of clonazepam if necessary. The systemic exposure of clonazepam may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Clonazepam is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with rilzabrutinib and monitor for adverse reactions. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cobimetinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for cobimetinib toxicity. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Simulations have demonstrated that a short course of cobimetinib 20 mg once daily taken with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor produces similar concentrations to cobimetinib 60 mg per day alone.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with rilzabrutinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rilzabrutinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with other dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors has been observed to increase colchicine overall exposure by 2- to 3.6-fold.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and conivaptan due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of rilzabrutinib with medroxyprogesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of medroxyprogesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Medroxyprogesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via CYP3A; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and crizotinib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects; crizotinib exposure may also increase. Both rilzabrutinib and crizotinib are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and cyclosporine due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure and the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects; cyclosporine exposure may also increase. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, while cyclosporine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 100 mg once daily if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor is predicted to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Daridorexant: (Major) Limit the daridorexant dose to 25 mg if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase daridorexant exposure and the risk for daridorexant-related adverse effects. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased daridorexant overall exposure 2.4-fold.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and darunavir due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and darunavir due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and darunavir due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Deflazacort: (Major) Decrease deflazacort dose to one third of the recommended dosage when coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may significantly increase concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in an increased risk of toxicity. Deflazacort is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and for quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may result in increased plasma concentrations of quinidine. Quinidine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dihydroergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and diltiazem due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects; diltiazem exposure may also increase. Both rilzabrutinib and diltiazem are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for dolutegravir-related adverse effects during concomitant use with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for dolutegravir-related adverse effects during concomitant use with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for dolutegravir-related adverse effects during concomitant use with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid administration of doxorubicin with rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in an increase in doxorubicin-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of CYP3A or P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid administration of doxorubicin with rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in an increase in doxorubicin-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of CYP3A or P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence) of dronabinol if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and dronedarone due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure and the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects; dronedarone exposure may also increase. Both rilzabrutinib and dronedarone are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of rilzabrutinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and duvelisib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure and the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects; duvelisib exposure may also increase. Both rilzabrutinib and duvelisib are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of rilzabrutinib. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of rilzabrutinib; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elacestrant and rilzabrutinib due to the risk of increased elacestrant exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased elacestrant overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Elagolix: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of elagolix and rilzabrutinib is contraindicated; concomitant use may increase elagolix exposure and the risk for elagolix-related adverse effects. Use may also decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Elagolix is an OATP1B1 substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and strong OATP1B1 inhibitor. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of elagolix and rilzabrutinib is contraindicated; concomitant use may increase elagolix exposure and the risk for elagolix-related adverse effects. Use may also decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Elagolix is an OATP1B1 substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and strong OATP1B1 inhibitor. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of grazoprevir and rilzabrutinib is contraindicated due to the potential for increased grazoprevir exposure. Grazoprevir is a substrate of OATP1B1/3; rilzabrutinib is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2- to 4-fold.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with rilzabrutinib; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) If rilzabrutinib and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor to every other day in the morning when coadministered with rilzabrutinib; omit the ivacaftor evening dose and administer in the morning every other day alternating with elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor (i.e., recommended dose of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor on day 1 in the morning and recommended dose of ivacaftor on day 2 in the morning). Coadministration may increase elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. Elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 2.9-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase elexacaftor and tezacaftor exposure by 2.3-fold and 2.1-fold, respectively.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of eliglustat with rilzabrutinib in intermediate or poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (IMs or PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs), coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Concurrent use is contraindicated in EMs and IMs also receiving a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Concurrent use may result in unexpectedly high plasma concentrations of eliglustat, further increasing the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., cardiac arrhythmias).
Elinzanetant: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Eluxadoline: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects including decreased mental and physical acuity if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and rilzabrutinib is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, potentially reducing rilzabrutinib efficacy, and may increase encorafenib exposure, increasing the risk for encorafenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an encorafenib dosage reduction is required: reduce a daily dose of 450 mg to 225 mg, reduce a daily dose of 300 mg to 150 mg, reduce the daily dose to 75 mg for all other dosages. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib exposure by approximately 80%, and concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased encorafenib exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with rilzabrutinib due to increased entrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for entrectinib-related adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary in adults and pediatric patients 2 years and older, reduce the dose of entrectinib (600 mg/day or 400 mg/day to 200 mg/day; 300 mg/day to 100 mg/day; 200 mg/day to 50 mg/day) and limit coadministration to 14 days or less. For pediatric patients with a starting dose less than 200 mg, avoid coadministration. Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of entrectinib by 3-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Eplerenone: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with rilzabrutinib in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving rilzabrutinib, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating rilzabrutinib and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Ergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and erythromycin due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Etrasimod: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and rilzabrutinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, potentially reducing rilzabrutinib efficacy, and may increase etravirine exposure, increasing the risk for etravirine-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; etravirine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Everolimus: (Major) Coadministration of everolimus with rilzabrutinib requires a dose reduction for some indications and close monitoring for others. For patients receiving everolimus for oncology indications and tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC)-associated renal angiomyolipoma, reduce the initial dose of everolimus to 2.5 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to 5 mg PO once daily if the 2.5 mg dose is tolerated. For patients with TSC-associated subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) and TSC-associated partial-onset seizures, reduce the daily dose of everolimus by 50%, changing to every-other-day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength; assess the everolimus whole blood trough concentration 2 weeks after initiation of rilzabrutinib and adjust the dose as necessary to remain in the recommended therapeutic range. Also monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations for patients receiving everolimus for either kidney or liver transplant and adjust the dose as necessary to remain in the recommended therapeutic range. Everolimus is a CYP3A substrate and a P-gp substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors increased the overall exposure of everolimus by 3.5 to 4.4-fold.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Famotidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and H2-blockers if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering rilzabrutinib 2 hours before an H2-blocker mitigates this interaction and has been observed to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 28%.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and fedratinib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and rilzabrutinib should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and half-life by approximately 2.5-fold and 2-fold, respectively.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease the exposure of both drugs, potentially reducing their efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia and reduce the finerenone dosage as appropriate based on observed changes in serum potassium values if concomitant use of finerenone and rilzabrutinib is required. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk for finerenone-related adverse effects, such as hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased finerenone overall exposure by 170% to 248%.
Flibanserin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of flibanserin and rilzabrutinib is contraindicated due to increased flibanserin exposure, which can result in severe hypotension and syncope. If initiating flibanserin following use of rilzabrutinib, start flibanserin at least 2 weeks after the last dose of rilzabrutinib. If initiating rilzabrutinib following flibanserin use, start rilzabrutinib at least 2 days after the last dose of flibanserin. Flibanserin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and fluconazole due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fluvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in fluvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase fluvastatin exposure. Fluvastatin is a substrate of OATP1B3; rilzabrutinib is an inhibitor of OATP1B3.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and fluvoxamine due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and fosamprenavir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects; fosamprenavir exposure may also increase. Both rilzabrutinib and fosamprenavir are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Gepirone: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for gepotidacin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary; avoid use if gepotidacin is being used to treat gonorrhea. Concomitant use may increase gepotidacin exposure and the risk for gepotidacin-related adverse effects. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase gepotidacin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glecaprevir-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glecaprevir exposure. Glecaprevir is a BCRP, P-gp, and OATP1B1/3 substrate; rilzabrutinib is an BCRP, P-gp, and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glyburide-related adverse reactions, such as hypoglycemia, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glyburide exposure. Glyburide is a substrate of OATP1B1/3; rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glyburide-related adverse reactions, such as hypoglycemia, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glyburide exposure. Glyburide is a substrate of OATP1B1/3; rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during rilzabrutinib treatment due to the risk of increased rilzabrutinib exposure and adverse reactions. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guanFACINE: (Major) Decrease the dose of extended-release guanfacine by 50% if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary; if rilzabrutinib is discontinued, the dose of extended-release guanfacine may be increased to the recommended level. Monitor patients closely for adverse effects including hypotension, drowsiness, lethargy, and bradycardia. Recommendations for immediate-release guanfacine are not available. Guanfacine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
H2-blockers: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and H2-blockers if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering rilzabrutinib 2 hours before an H2-blocker mitigates this interaction and has been observed to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 28%.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ibrutinib: (Major) If ibrutinib is coadministered with rilzabrutinib, reduce the initial ibrutinib dosage to 280 mg/day PO in patients receiving ibrutinib for a B-cell malignancy. Resume ibrutinib at the previous dose if rilzabrutinib is discontinued. No initial ibrutinib dosage reduction is necessary in patients receiving ibrutinib for chronic graft-versus-host disease. Monitor patients for ibrutinib toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, bleeding, infection); modify the ibrutinib dosage as recommended if toxicity occurs. Ibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When ibrutinib was administered with multiple doses of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC value of ibrutinib was increased by 3-fold.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and H2-blockers if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering rilzabrutinib 2 hours before an H2-blocker mitigates this interaction and has been observed to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 28%.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and idelalisib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of ifosfamide if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Ifosfamide is metabolized by CYP3A to its active alkylating metabolites and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of these active metabolites, decreasing the effectiveness of ifosfamide treatment.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and imatinib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and isavuconazonium due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and itraconazole due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivabradine and rilzabrutinib as increased concentrations of ivabradine are possible, which may result in bradycardia exacerbation and conduction disturbances. Ivabradine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the AUC of ivabradine by 2- to 3-fold.
Ivacaftor: (Major) If rilzabrutinib and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with rilzabrutinib due to increased plasma concentrations of ivosidenib, which increases the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. Ivosidenib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the ivosidenib single-dose AUC to 173% of control based on physiologically-based pharmacokinetic modeling. Multiple doses of the moderate CYP3A inhibitor are predicted to increase the ivosidenib steady-state AUC to 190% of control.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in larotrectinib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase larotrectinib exposure. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase larotrectinib exposure by 2.7-fold.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and oral lefamulin due to the risk for increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. An interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor; oral lefamulin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and rilzabrutinib as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the lemborexant overall exposure by up to 4.5-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and letermovir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects; letermovir exposure may also increase. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor, while letermovir is a OATP1B1/3 substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with rilzabrutinib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lonafarnib and rilzabrutinib is contraindicated; concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Lonafarnib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, while rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%. (Major) If rilzabrutinib and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Reduce the dose of lumateperone to 21 mg once daily if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase lumateperone exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased lumateperone exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Lurasidone: (Major) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone is 20 mg daily (maximum, 80 mg daily) if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Reduce the lurasidone dose to half of its original dose level if rilzabrutinib is added to existing lurasidone therapy. Lurasidone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased lurasidone exposure by 116%.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lurbinectedin and rilzabrutinib due to the risk of increased lurbinectedin exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of lurbinectedin by 50%. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the overall exposure of lurbinectedin by up to 2.3-fold.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting rilzabrutinib therapy. Avoid initiation of rilzabrutinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable rilzabrutinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of rilzabrutinib with medroxyprogesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of medroxyprogesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Medroxyprogesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via CYP3A; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with rilzabrutinib can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with rilzabrutinib can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Methylergonovine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midazolam with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased midazolam overall exposure by 2.2-fold and is predicted to increase midazolam exposure by up to 3-fold in patients with immune thrombocytopenia.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and mifepristone due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with rilzabrutinib and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and rilzabrutinib; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Momelotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in momelotinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase momelotinib exposure. Momelotinib is an OATP1B1/3 substrate; rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor increased momelotinib exposure by 57%; exposure of its active M21 metabolite increased by 12%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in naldemedine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase naldemedine exposure. Naldemedine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Naloxegol: (Major) Avoid concomitant administration of naloxegol and rilzabrutinib due to the potential for increased naloxegol exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, decrease the naloxegol dosage to 12.5 mg once daily and monitor for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal symptoms such as hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning. Naloxegol is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased naloxegol exposure by approximately 3.4-fold.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of nab-paclitaxel with rilzabrutinib is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A inhibitors.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and nefazodone due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and nelfinavir due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while nelfinavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib with neratinib due to an increased risk of neratinib-related toxicity. Neratinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a dual moderate CYP3A/P-gp inhibitor. Simulations using physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models suggest that another dual moderate CYP3A/P-gp inhibitor may increase neratinib exposure by 299%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and netupitant due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Careful monitoring and dose adjustment of nifedipine may be necessary if administered with rilzabrutinib as nifedipine exposure and adverse effects may be increased. Consider initiating nifedipine at the lowest dose. Nifedipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and nilotinib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and rilzabrutinib is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and nirogacestat due to the risk for increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Both rilzabrutinib and nirogacestat are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold, while concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase nirogacestat overall exposure by 2.73- to 3.18-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with rilzabrutinib due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Nizatidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and H2-blockers if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering rilzabrutinib 2 hours before an H2-blocker mitigates this interaction and has been observed to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 28%.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with rilzabrutinib due to the risk of increased olaparib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of olaparib to 150 mg twice daily; the original dose may be resumed 3 to 5 elimination half-lives after rilzabrutinib is discontinued. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; concomitant use may increase olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the olaparib AUC by 121%.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and rilzabrutinib is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and rilzabrutinib may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and rilzabrutinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%. (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids, such as oral sodium bicarbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Oveporexton: (Major) Decrease the oveporexton dosage to 0.5 mg twice daily if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase oveporexton exposure and the risk for oveporexton-related adverse reactions. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased oveporexton overall exposure by 2.9-fold.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in oxybutynin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Oxybutynin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with moderate CYP3A inhibitors may alter the mean pharmacokinetic parameters of oxybutynin, although the clinical relevance of these potential interactions is unknown.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of paclitaxel with rilzabrutinib is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A inhibitors.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, potentially reducing rilzabrutinib efficacy, and may increase pacritinib exposure, increasing the risk for pacritinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%; coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased palovarotene exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the palovarotene dose by half. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased palovarotene overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Pantoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and rilzabrutinib due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit BCRP or P-gp.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk of increased pemigatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pemigatinib to 9 mg PO once daily if original dose was 13.5 mg per day and to 4.5 mg PO once daily if original dose was 9 mg per day. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, resume the original pemigatinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of rilzabrutinib. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase pemigatinib exposure by approximately 50% to 80%.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, potentially reducing rilzabrutinib efficacy, and may increase pexidartinib exposure, increasing the risk for pexidartinib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: reduce 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day to 125 mg twice daily; reduce 250 mg/day to 125 mg once daily. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; pexidartinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%; coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pexidartinib overall exposure by 67%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate, and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp and OATP1B1 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a P-gp and OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Pivekimab sunirine: (Moderate) Monitor for pivekimab sunirine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to FGN849, the cytotoxic component of pivekimab sunirine. FGN849 is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and posaconazole due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor, while posaconazole is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a combined moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another combined moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 2.1-fold.
Pravastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pravastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pravastatin exposure. Pravastatin is an OATP1B1/3 substrate; rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with other dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors has been observed to increase colchicine overall exposure by 2- to 3.6-fold.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with rilzabrutinib; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and rilzabrutinib with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and for quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may result in increased plasma concentrations of quinidine. Quinidine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for quinine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase quinine exposure. Quinine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
RABEprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Ranolazine: (Major) Limit the dose of ranolazine to 500 mg twice daily if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased plasma levels of ranolazine by 50% to 130%.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and relacorilant due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer rilzabrutinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of rilzabrutinib is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer rilzabrutinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of rilzabrutinib is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) A dose reduction of repaglinide and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Repaglinide is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, potentially reducing rilzabrutinib efficacy, and may increase repotrectinib exposure, increasing the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Resmetirom: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of resmetirom and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased resmetirom exposure which may increase the risk for resmetirom-related adverse effects. Resmetirom is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Revefenacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revefenacin and rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase exposure to the active metabolite of revefenacin and the risk for anticholinergic adverse effects. The active metabolite of revefenacin is a substrate of OATP1B1/3; rilzabrutinib is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate, and ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib exposure by approximately 3-fold, while concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib exposure by approximately 8-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate, and ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib exposure by approximately 3-fold, while concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib exposure by approximately 8-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rivaroxaban and rilzabrutinib in patients with renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 79 mL/min) unless the potential benefit justifies the risk. Rivaroxaban is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic trial, coadministration with another combined moderate CYP3A/P-gp inhibitor increased the AUC of rivaroxaban by 76% in patients with mild renal impairment (CrCl 50 to 79 mL/min) and by 99% in patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 49 mL/min) compared to patients with normal renal function (CrCl greater than 80 mL/min); similar trends in pharmacodynamic effects were also observed.
Roflumilast: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in roflumilast-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase roflumilast exposure. Roflumilast is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of roflumilast by 70%.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and saquinavir due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, while saquinavir is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Decrease the sebetralstat dose by 50% if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sebetralstat exposure and the risk for sebetralstat-related adverse effects. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sebetralstat overall exposure by 2-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Seladelpar: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in seladelpar-related adverse effects, particularly in individuals who are known CYP2C9 poor metabolizers, if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase seladelpar exposure. Seladelpar is a CYP2C9, CYP3A, BCRP, and OATP1B1/3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, BCRP, and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another BCRP and OAPT1B1/3 inhibitor increased seladelpar overall exposure by 2-fold.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk of increased selpercatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of selpercatinib (160 mg twice daily to 120 mg twice daily; 120 mg twice daily to 80 mg twice daily; 80 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 40 mg three times daily to 40 mg once daily). Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, such as additional electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase selpercatinib exposure by 1.66-fold to 1.99-fold.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk of increased selumetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of selumetinib to 20 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 25 mg/m2 twice daily and 15 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 20 mg/m2 twice daily. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, resume the original selumetinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of rilzabrutinib. Selumetinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase selumetinib exposure by 41%.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sildenafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary; consider a starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil when prescribed for erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of sildenafil by 182%. Predictions based on a pharmacokinetic model suggest that drug-drug interactions with CYP3A inhibitors will be less for sildenafil injection than those observed after oral sildenafil administration.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of silodosin and rilzabrutinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure which may increase the risk for silodosin-related adverse effects. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors on silodosin has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and rilzabrutinib may increase siponimod exposure. If the patient is also receiving a drug regimen containing a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor, use of siponimod is not recommended due to a significant increase in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A dual inhibitor led to a 2-fold increase in the AUC of siponimod.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use of other moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors increased sirolimus overall exposure by 2.2- to 4.2-fold.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids, such as oral sodium bicarbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of voxilaprevir and rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase voxilaprevir exposure and the risk of voxilaprevir-related adverse reactions. Voxilaprevir is a substrate of OATP1B1/3; rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and rilzabrutinib as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure and increase the risk for sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if rilzabrutinib must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor like rilzabrutinib can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Suvorexant: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with rilzabrutinib. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Suzetrigine: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of rilzabrutinib. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of rilzabrutinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tazemetostat with rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased tazemetostat exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease current tazemetostat daily dosage by 50% (e.g., decrease 800 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO twice daily; 600 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO for first dose and 200 mg PO for second dose; 400 mg PO twice daily to 200 mg PO twice daily). Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased tazemetostat overall exposure by 3.1-fold.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with rilzabrutinib; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) If rilzabrutinib and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased bleeding if ticagrelor is coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ticagrelor. Ticagrelor is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Tinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tinidazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of tinidazole. Tinidazole is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and tipranavir due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, while tipranavir is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Tolvaptan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rilzabrutinib when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with rilzabrutinib. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rilzabrutinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; rilzabrutinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of rilzabrutinib, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of rilzabrutinib, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and verapamil due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects; verapamil exposure may also increase. Both rilzabrutinib and verapamil are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tretinoin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tretinoin exposure. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and tucatinib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk for ubrogenpant-related adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in ubrogepant overall exposure.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with rilzabrutinib; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of rilzabrutinib; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg every other day. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg every other day. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 3.9- and 5.1-fold, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of rilzabrutinib; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg every other day. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg every other day. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 3.9- and 5.1-fold, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Major) Do not use vardenafil orally disintegrating tablets with rilzabrutinib due to increased vardenafil exposure; do not exceed a single dose of 5 mg per 24-hour period of vardenafil oral tablets. Vardenafil is primarily metabolized by CYP3A; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of vardenafil by 4-fold.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase venetoclax exposure. Venetoclax is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and verapamil due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects; verapamil exposure may also increase. Both rilzabrutinib and verapamil are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
vinBLAStine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinblastine-related adverse reactions, including myelosuppression, constipation, and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Vinblastine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Enhanced vinblastine toxicity was reported with coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of rilzabrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of rilzabrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Reduce the voclosporin dosage to 15.8 mg PO in the morning and 7.9 mg PO in the evening if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase voclosporin exposure and the risk of voclosporin-related adverse effects such as nephrotoxicity, hypertension, and QT prolongation. Voclosporin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase voclosporin exposure by 3-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and voriconazole due to the risk of increased exposure of both drugs and associated adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, while voriconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold, while coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased voriconazole exposure by 79%.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and voxelotor due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with rilzabrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Decrease the zanubrutinib dose to 80 mg PO twice daily if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may result in increased zanubrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Further decrease the zanubrutinib dose as recommended if adverse reactions occur. After discontinuation of rilzabrutinib, resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The zanubrutinib AUC increased 62% to 88% when coadministered with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Zavegepant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zavegepant and rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase zavegepant exposure and the risk for zavegepant-related adverse effects. Zavegepant is an OATP1B3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B3 inhibitor increased zavegepant overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    Dizziness (8%) and headache (18%) were reported in rilzabrutinib-treated subjects in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, infection, pharyngitis
    General Information
    An increased risk of serious infections (including bacterial, viral, or fungal) can occur in individuals treated with Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitors, including rilzabrutinib. Fatal pneumonia occurred in 1 rilzabrutinib-treated subject in clinical trials. Other serious infections included COVID-19 infection (14%; grade 3 or more, 0.8%), wound infection (0.8%), and urinary tract infection with kidney abscess (0.8%). Monitor individuals for signs and symptoms of infection and treat appropriately. Naso-pharyngitis (7%) and cough (5%) were also reported in rilzabrutinib-treated subjects in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions including abdominal pain (14%), diarrhea (32%), dyspepsia (5%), nausea (20%), and vomiting (7%) were reported in rilzabrutinib-treated subjects in clinical trials. The adverse events were grade 1 or grade 2. Of those who experienced gastrointestinal adverse reactions, 2 subjects discontinued rilzabrutinib. Recovery or resolution with supportive treatment allowing continuation of rilzabrutinib occurred in 91% of subjects with diarrhea, 85% with nausea, and 79% with abdominal pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity, including severe, life-threatening, and potentially fatal cases of drug-induced liver injury (DILI) can occur in individuals treated with Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitors. In rilzabrutinib clinical trials in individuals with immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), elevated hepatic enzymes occurred and were generally mild to moderate in severity. Evaluate bilirubin and transaminases at baseline and as clinically indicated during rilzabrutinib treatment. For individuals who develop abnormal liver tests after initiation of rilzabrutinib, monitor more frequently for liver test abnormalities and clinical signs and symptoms of hepatic toxicity. If DILI is suspected, withhold rilzabrutinib. If DILI is confirmed, discontinue rilzabrutinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    arthralgia
    General Information
    Arthralgia (9%) was reported in rilzabrutinib-treated subjects in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    neutropenia
    General Information
    Grade 1 or 2 neutropenia (11%) was reported in rilzabrutinib-treated subjects in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Rilzabrutinib is an oral kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of persistent or chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in adults who have had an insufficient response to a previous treatment. Rilzabrutinib is a reversible kinase inhibitor targeting Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK). The therapeutic effect of rilzabrutinib in ITP is mediated through immune modulation including inhibition of B cell activation and interruption of antibody-coated cell phagocytosis by Fc gamma receptors in the spleen and liver. Hepatotoxicity and increased risk of infection can occur in individuals treated with BTK inhibitors. The most common adverse events reported with rilzabrutinib in clinical trials include abdominal pain, COVID-19 infection, diarrhea, headache, and nausea. Rilzabrutinib was FDA-approved in August 2025.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Rilzabrutinib is a small molecule, covalent, reversible kinase inhibitor targeting Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK). The therapeutic effect of rilzabrutinib in immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is mediated through immune modulation including inhibition of B cell activation and interruption of antibody-coated cell phagocytosis by Fc gamma receptors in the spleen and liver. In vitro, rilzabrutinib reduced autoantibody signaling mediated through the Fc gamma receptor pathway, blocked B cell signaling, and decreased autoantibody generation through effects on B cell activation.
Pharmacodynamics
Rilzabrutinib has a short duration of systemic exposure with a long duration of action on the target due to its slow dissociation from BTK. Durable BTK occupancy in peripheral blood mononuclear cells was observed over a 24-hour period at therapeutic rilzabrutinib doses in healthy subjects.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The absolute oral bioavailability of rilzabrutinib is 4.7%. After a single oral dose of 400 mg rilzabrutinib, the median time to peak plasma concentration (Tmax) is approximately 2 hours. The Cmax and AUC of rilzabrutinib increase proportionally after administration of multiple doses of 300 to 600 mg. Steady-state plasma concentrations are reached within 3 days with accumulation up to 1.3-fold at the approved recommended dose. After daily doses of 400 mg rilzabrutinib twice daily, the steady-state Cmax and AUC24 hours are 150 nanograms/mL and 1,540 nanograms x hour/mL, respectively. Rilzabrutinib AUC and Cmax decreased by 20% and 31%, respectively, after administration of a single oral 400 mg dose with a high fat meal (approximately 1,000 calories with 50% of total caloric content from fat).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rilzabrutinib were observed based on mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A). Rilzabrutinib exposure (both Cmax and AUC) increased by approximately 4.5-fold in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B). Rilzabrutinib has not been studied in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rilzabrutinib were observed based on mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 46 to 89 mL/minute). Rilzabrutinib has not been studied in individuals with a CrCl less than 46 mL/minute.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rilzabrutinib were observed based on age (12 to 80 years).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rilzabrutinib were observed based on age (12 to 80 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rilzabrutinib were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rilzabrutinib were observed based on race.
  Text
  Rilzabrutinib is administered orally. The volume of distribution at terminal phase (Vz) after IV administration is 149 L. Rilzabrutinib is 97.5% bound to plasma proteins, and the blood-to-plasma ratio is 0.786. Metabolism of rilzabrutinib is predominantly by CYP3A4. Rilzabrutinib clearance is time-independent. After multiple doses of rilzabrutinib 400 mg twice daily in subjects with immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), mean CL/F was 246 to 911 L/hour. Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis in subjects with ITP, the mean CL/F was 516 L/hour. After administration of a single 400 mg 14C-labeleled rilzabrutinib dose in healthy subjects, approximately 86% of the dose was recovered in feces (9% unchanged) and to a lesser extent in urine (approximately 5%) and bile (approximately 6%). Approximately 0.03% of rilzabrutinib was excreted unchanged in the urine. The half-life of rilzabrutinib ranged from 1.6 to 4.5 hours in phase 1 clinical trials.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, BCRP, BSEP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, P-gp
Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate, inducer, and inhibitor. Additionally, rilzabrutinib inhibits BCRP, BSEP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and P-gp at clinically relevant concentrations in vitro.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer tablets whole with a glass of water. Do not cut, crush or chew the tablets.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer at approximately the same time each day with or without food. Administration with food may improve tolerability in individuals who experience gastrointestinal symptoms.
Administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before any antacid or H2 receptor antagonist.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, administer the missed dose as soon as possible on the same day and at least 2 hours apart from the next regular scheduled dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    800 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    800 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Child-Pugh class A: No dosage adjustment needed.
Child-Pugh class B or C: Avoid use.
  Renal Impairment
  Mild or moderate renal impairment: No dosage adjustment needed.
Severe renal impairment: Avoid use.
