=== Tegaserod (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2476)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 12 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): appetite stimulation, bowel ischemia, bowel necrosis, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, colitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, gi bleeding, hepatitis, hypokalemia, ischemic colitis, syncope, asthenia, dizziness, headache, migraine, vertigo, chest pain (unspecified), myocardial infarction, stroke

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: Tegaserod is not available for general use; it is only available for emergency situations that are considered to be life-threatening or require hospitalization. NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - Zelnorm

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults Females younger than 65 years
        Dosage Description
        6 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue if adequate control of symptoms is not achieved after 4 to 6 weeks of treatment.
    Heading
    For the treatment irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with constipation in females

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: Tegaserod is not available for general use; it is only available for emergency situations that are considered to be life-threatening or require hospitalization. Clinicians wishing to prescribe tegaserod to their patients should contact FDA for authorization. FDA will then contact Novartis for drug shipment. Denial for emergency use is possible, especially in those patients with risk factors for adverse effects including prior myocardial infarction or stroke, unstable angina, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, age > 55 years, tobacco smoking, obesity, depression, anxiety, or suicidal ideation.
 
Pooled data from 29 studies that included 7031 patients who received placebo and 11,614 patients, the majority of whom were middle aged females, who received tegaserod reported an overall low rate of cardiovascular related events. However, 13 tegaserod treated patients (0.1%) experienced a serious, life-threatening cardiovascular event with 1 reported death (see Adverse Reactions). In comparison, only 1 patient (0.01%) receiving placebo experienced symptoms suggestive of a stroke, and symptoms resolved without further complication. Other reports of cardiovascular events associated with tegaserod therapy exist. In a single case report, a myocardial infarction is described in a man who received 2 doses of 6 mg tegaserod. Causality with tegaserod cannot be made; however, tegaserod has partial 5HT-1 agonist activity and theoretically may lead to cardiac events similar to the potent 5HT-1 agonists (i.e. sumatriptan) used for migraine headaches (see Adverse Reactions). Tegaserod therapy should be reserved for refractory patients were alternative treatment is not feasible. If indicated, use tegaserod with extreme caution in patients with cardiac disease or a history of myocardial infarction.
 
Tegaserod is contraindicated in any patient with a known hypersensitivity to the drug or any of its excipients.
 
Tegaserod is contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment or hepatic disease, cirrhosis, severe renal impairment, renal failure, or renal disease.
 
Tegaserod is contraindicated in patients with a history of GI obstruction, symptomatic gallbladder disease, suspected sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, or abdominal adhesions. Tegaserod should not be initiated in any patient who is currently experiencing or frequently experiences diarrhea. The effect of tegaserod in patients with gastrointestinal (GI) disease, other than IBS, is not known. Diarrhea, which is a common adverse effect of tegaserod, may aggravate certain GI disease. Serious consequences of diarrhea, including hypovolemia, hypotension and syncope have been reported with tegaserod treatment, in some instances requiring hospitalization for rehydration. Tegaserod should be discontinued immediately in any patient who develops hypotension or syncope. Additionally, although diarrhea appears to be a transient adverse effect of tegaserod, extended diarrhea may put a patient at risk for dehydration and electrolyte imbalance. Tegaserod should be discontinued immediately in patients with new or worsening abdominal pain. Patients should consult with their prescriber if they experience severe diarrhea, or if the diarrhea is accompanied by severe cramping, abdominal pain, or dizziness. Any undiagnosed rectal or GI bleeding should be evaluated prior to therapy with tegaserod. Ischemic colitis has been reported in post-marketing reports submitted to the FDA, although causality has not been determined. Clinical trials (n=7000) over a 3 month period did not result in any cases of ischemic colitis. Tegaserod should be discontinued immediately in any patient who develops bloody diarrhea, rectal bleeding or new or worsening abdominal pain. The patient should be evaluated and tegaserod should not be reinitiated in any patient with symptoms consistent with ischemic colitis.
 
Ovarian cyst development has been noted in tegaserod clinical trials, but a causal relationship has not been determined. It is not known if women with a history of ovarian cysts are at greater risk for further development of cysts while receiving tegaserod.
 
Tegaserod is classified in FDA pregnancy risk category B. Although limited, the human pregnancy experience suggests a low risk. However, it has been suggested that if a woman requires tegaserod therapy in pregnancy, avoid use during the first trimester as data are insufficient to determine the true risk to the developing fetus. Animal studies at tegaserod doses 15 to 51 times the normal human dose of 6 mg two times a day have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus.
 
Tegaserod should be avoided in lactating women. Studies in animals have detected tegaserod milk levels are 3 times higher than plasma levels. Although the clinical effects are not known, data suggest that a breast-feeding infant might ingest a significant dose of tegaserod. It is not known whether tegaserod is excreted in human milk. Based on the tumorigenicity data shown for tegaserod in the mouse carcinogenicity study and other potential significant exposure, a decision should be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
 
Tegaserod has not been formally studied in a pediatric population with IBS. The safety and effectiveness of tegaserod in children below the age of 18 years have not been established.
 
Carcinogenic effects in rats have not been seen at doses up to 111 times the normal human dose of tegaserod (6 mg PO bid). In mice, dietary administration of tegaserod for 104 weeks produced mucosal hyperplasia and adenocarcinoma of the small intestines at 600 mg/kg/day (83—110 times the normal human dose). There was no evidence of carcinogenicity at a lower dose of 200 mg/kg/day (24—35 times the normal human dose) or 60 mg/kg/day (3—4 times the normal human dose).
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    angina, cardiac disease, coronary artery disease, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, myocardial infarction, obesity, stroke, tobacco smoking
    General Information
    Tegaserod is contraindicated in patients with a history of myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA), or angina. Stroke, MI, and cardiovascular death (major adverse cardiovascular events [MACE]) have been reported in adults taking tegaserod who had an increased risk of developing an adverse cardiovascular event based on their medical history. A retrospective analysis of 29 placebo-controlled trials of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) and other gastrointestinal motility disorders of at least 4 weeks duration was conducted. The rate of MACE events confirmed in 2 external adjudications of the clinical trial database for tegaserod-treated patients ranged from 0.03% to 0.06% in the overall population and 0.01% to 0.03% in the female population less than 65 years of age without a history of cardiovascular ischemic disease compared to zero in the placebo-treated group. Assess female patients less than 65 years of age for a history of cardiac disease and cardiovascular risk factors prior to treatment with tegaserod. Consider the potential risks of treatment with expectations in improvements in symptoms of IBS-C. Discontinue tegaserod in patients who experience an MI, stroke, TIA, or angina. Evaluate the risks and benefits of continued use of tegaserod in patients who develop clinical or other evidence of cardiovascular ischemic heart disease (e.g., coronary artery disease) and/or experience changes in health status that could increase cardiovascular risk (e.g., tobacco smoking, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, obesity) during treatment with tegaserod.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Tegaserod should be used with caution in patients with a history of suicidal ideation and depression. Suicide, suicidal attempt and suicidal ideation, and self-injurious behavior have been reported in clinical trials of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) and other gastrointestinal motility disorders. The frequency of suicidal ideation or attempts with tegaserod treatment (8 patients out of 10,003) was higher than placebo (1 patient out of 5,425). Suicidal ideation/behavior in clinical trials was proportionately more frequent among patients receiving antidepressant medication. Monitor all tegaserod-treated patients for clinical worsening of depression and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors, especially during the initial few months of treatment. Counsel family members and caregivers of patients to monitor for changes in behavior and to alert the healthcare provider. Instruct patients to immediately discontinue tegaserod and contact their healthcare provider if their depression is persistently worse or they are experiencing emergent suicidal thoughts or behaviors.
    Headline
    hepatic disease, renal disease, renal impairment
    General Information
    Tegaserod is contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) or hepatic disease,  severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73m2), or end-stage renal disease.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Tegaserod is contraindicated in any patient with a known hypersensitivity to the drug or any of its excipients.
    Headline
    abdominal pain, colitis, diarrhea, gallbladder disease, GI bleeding, GI disease, GI obstruction, hypotension, hypovolemia, ischemic colitis, syncope
    General Information
    Tegaserod is contraindicated in patients with a history of GI obstruction, symptomatic gallbladder disease, suspected sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, abdominal adhesions, ischemic colitis or other forms of intestinal ischemia. Avoid use of tegaserod in any patient who is currently experiencing or frequently experiences diarrhea. Diarrhea, which is a common adverse effect of tegaserod, may aggravate certain GI disease. Serious consequences of diarrhea, including hypovolemia, hypotension and syncope have been reported with tegaserod treatment, in some instances requiring hospitalization for rehydration. In clinical trials, the majority (84%) of the tegaserod patients reporting diarrhea had a single episode. In most cases, diarrhea occurred within the first week of treatment. Typically, diarrhea resolved with continued therapy. Diarrhea resulted in discontinuation in 1.6% of tegaserod-treated patients compared to 0% in placebo. Tegaserod should be discontinued immediately in any patient who develops diarrhea, hypotension or syncope. Additionally, although diarrhea appears to be a transient adverse effect of tegaserod, extended diarrhea may put a patient at risk for dehydration and electrolyte imbalance. Ischemic colitis and other forms of intestinal ischemia have also been reported during postmarketing experience in patients receiving tegaserod. In some cases, hospitalization was required. Discontinue tegaserod in patients who develop symptoms of ischemic colitis, such as rectal or GI bleeding, bloody diarrhea, or new or worsening abdominal pain. Evaluate patients experiencing these symptoms promptly and perform appropriate diagnostic testing. Do not reinitiate tegaserod in patients who develop findings consistent with ischemic colitis or other forms of intestinal ischemia.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Tegaserod is not indicated in geriatric patients 65 years of age and older.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from case reports with tegaserod use during pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, decreased survival of rat pups was observed with maternal dietary administration of tegaserod at 71 times the recommended dose during organogenesis and through lactation. Decreased body weight and delays in developmental landmarks in rat pups were observed with maternal dietary administration of 45 times the recommended dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data regarding the presence of tegaserod in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Because of the potential for serious reactions in the breastfed infant, including tumorigenicity, advise a lactating woman that breast-feeding is not recommended during treatment with tegaserod. Tegaserod and its metabolites are present in rat milk; following oral administration, tegaserod and its metabolites are excreted in the milk of lactating rats with a milk to plasma concentration ratio of 33:1 at 8 hours.
    Headline
    children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    The safety and effectiveness of tegaserod in neonates, infants, children, and adolescents have not been established.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from case reports with tegaserod use during pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, decreased survival of rat pups was observed with maternal dietary administration of tegaserod at 71 times the recommended dose during organogenesis and through lactation. Decreased body weight and delays in developmental landmarks in rat pups were observed with maternal dietary administration of 45 times the recommended dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no data regarding the presence of tegaserod in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Because of the potential for serious reactions in the breastfed infant, including tumorigenicity, advise a lactating woman that breast-feeding is not recommended during treatment with tegaserod. Tegaserod and its metabolites are present in rat milk; following oral administration, tegaserod and its metabolites are excreted in the milk of lactating rats with a milk to plasma concentration ratio of 33:1 at 8 hours.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who tegaserod concomitantly.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who tegaserod concomitantly.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic drugs, such as pioglitazone. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who tegaserod concomitantly.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Anticholinergics: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Atropine: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Benztropine: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Dicyclomine: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Digoxin: (Minor) When digoxin is combined with tegaserod, a reduction in digoxin peak plasma concentration occurs. Digoxin dose adjustments are unlikely to be required when combined with tegaserod. Until further clinical use is gained with tegaserod, use caution and consider monitoring digoxin levels more frequently if combined with tegaserod.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes. Typically, blood glucose could be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. However, incretin mimetics have been shown to slow gastric emptying. The clinical effects of these competing mechanisms is not known. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment and blood glucose should be closely monitored when coadministered with tegaserod.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents, such as linagliptin. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents, such as linagliptin. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes. Typically, blood glucose could be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. However, incretin mimetics have been shown to slow gastric emptying. The clinical effects of these competing mechanisms is not known. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment and blood glucose should be closely monitored when coadministered with tegaserod.
flavoxATE: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Fosfomycin (oral): (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in oral fosfomycin efficacy if concomitant use with a prokinetic agent is necessary. Medications that increase gastric motility decrease oral fosfomycin exposure which may reduce fosfomycin efficacy.
Fosfomycin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in oral fosfomycin efficacy if concomitant use with a prokinetic agent is necessary. Medications that increase gastric motility decrease oral fosfomycin exposure which may reduce fosfomycin efficacy.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Hyoscyamine: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes. Typically, blood glucose could be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. However, incretin mimetics have been shown to slow gastric emptying. The clinical effects of these competing mechanisms is not known. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment and blood glucose should be closely monitored when coadministered with tegaserod.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes. Typically, blood glucose could be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. However, incretin mimetics have been shown to slow gastric emptying. The clinical effects of these competing mechanisms is not known. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment and blood glucose should be closely monitored when coadministered with tegaserod.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes. Typically, blood glucose could be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. However, incretin mimetics have been shown to slow gastric emptying. The clinical effects of these competing mechanisms is not known. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment and blood glucose should be closely monitored when coadministered with tegaserod.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Insulins: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents, such as linagliptin. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents, such as linagliptin. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes. Typically, blood glucose could be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. However, incretin mimetics have been shown to slow gastric emptying. The clinical effects of these competing mechanisms is not known. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment and blood glucose should be closely monitored when coadministered with tegaserod.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes. Typically, blood glucose could be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. However, incretin mimetics have been shown to slow gastric emptying. The clinical effects of these competing mechanisms is not known. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment and blood glucose should be closely monitored when coadministered with tegaserod.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Methscopolamine: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
metOLazone: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes. Typically, blood glucose could be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. However, incretin mimetics have been shown to slow gastric emptying. The clinical effects of these competing mechanisms is not known. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment and blood glucose should be closely monitored when coadministered with tegaserod.
oxyBUTYnin: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic drugs, such as pioglitazone.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic drugs, such as pioglitazone. (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic drugs, such as pioglitazone.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Scopolamine: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes. Typically, blood glucose could be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. However, incretin mimetics have been shown to slow gastric emptying. The clinical effects of these competing mechanisms is not known. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment and blood glucose should be closely monitored when coadministered with tegaserod.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive tegaserod concomitantly.
Solifenacin: (Major) Solifenacin, as an antimuscarinic, may slow GI motility and thus may potentially antagonize the actions of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, like tegaserod.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive GI prokinetic agents concomitantly.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes. Typically, blood glucose could be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. However, incretin mimetics have been shown to slow gastric emptying. The clinical effects of these competing mechanisms is not known. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment and blood glucose should be closely monitored when coadministered with tegaserod.
Tolterodine: (Major) Tolterodine is an antagonist at muscarinic cholinergic receptors; the anticholinergic actions of the drug are most potent on the urinary bladder, with less activity on GI and salivary muscarinic cholinergic receptors. Tolterodine, as an antimuscarinic, may slow GI motility and thus may potentially antagonize the actions of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, like metoclopramide or tegaserod. However, the clinical significance of this potential interaction is uncertain.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Trospium: (Major) Trospium is an antagonist at muscarinic cholinergic receptors and decreases gastrointestinal motility. Trospium, therefore, may potentially antagonize the actions of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, like tegaserod.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Major) Trospium is an antagonist at muscarinic cholinergic receptors and decreases gastrointestinal motility. Trospium, therefore, may potentially antagonize the actions of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, like tegaserod.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE Tegaserod is no longer available for general use; it is only available for emergency situations that are considered to be life-threatening or require hospitalization. Clinicians wishing to prescribe tegaserod to their patients should contact FDA for authorization.Gastrointestinal adverse events are the most common side effects of tegaserod. Tegaserod appears to be well tolerated; the primary adverse effects being abdominal pain (12%), dyspepsia, flatulence (6%) and nausea/vomiting (8%). Diarrhea is a dose-related and expected pharmacological effect of tegaserod. In Phase III clinical trials, roughly 9% of tegaserod-treated patients developed diarrhea. The diarrhea was transient, usually occurred once in the first week of therapy, and lasted a median of 2 days. Roughly 2—6% of patients discontinued medication due to diarrhea. In one study, the onset of loose stool occurred 2.5 hours after dose administration and lasted approximately 2 minutes. If any patient experiences severe diarrhea during therapy with tegaserod, they should be directed to their prescriber. Some medications, such as lactulose, magnesium salts, misoprostol, stool softeners, some antibiotics, polyethylene glycol, cholinergic agents and stimulant laxatives may aggravate the diarrhea induced by tegaserod. Bulk-producing laxatives, such as psyllium and fiber have been used safely in combination with tegaserod. In chronic constipation studies, diarrhea occurred at an incidence of > 12% in females > 65 years of age vs. 6% in females <= 65 years.In post-marketing reports, ischemic colitis, mesenteric or bowel ischemia, bowel necrosis, gangrenous bowel, GI bleeding (rectal bleeding), and syncope have been noted although the numbers are too small to assign causality. Sphincter of Oddi spasm, bile duct stones (cholelithiasis), cholecystitis with elevated hepatic enzymes (elevated ALT, AST, and bilirubin), and hepatitis have also been reported spontaneously. Hypokalemia secondary to diarrhea has been reported. Because these cases are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. An increase in cholecystectomies was observed in Phase III trials with tegaserod (5/2965; 0.17%) vs. placebo (1/1740; 0.06%), which lead to a higher number of abdominal surgeries in general for tegaserod (9/2965; 0.3%) vs. placebo (3/1740; 0.2%). A causal relationship between increased numbers of abdominal surgeries and tegaserod has not been established. The effects of long-term treatment with tegaserod on chronic constipation symptoms have been studied out to 13 months. As in previous trials, diarrhea was the most common drug-related adverse event reported in patients participating in this 13 month extension trial. Diarrhea was transient resolving without interruption of tegaserod treatment and rarely led to discontinuation. No reports of ischemic colitis or increased incidence of abdominal surgery occurred during the study period.In clinical trials, 15% of patients receiving tegaserod reported headache vs. 12% of the placebo group. Mild to moderate headache has been reported to occur from 0.5 to 11 hours after administration of tegaserod. In some subjects the headaches persisted for up to 40 hours. The incidence of headache was dose-dependent, but the intensity did not increase with the dose. It has not been reported if headache is a transient or recurrent side effect of tegaserod. A similar incidence of headache was reported in a large extension trial, studying the long-term safety and tolerability of tegaserod in chronic constipation. Few patients reported severe headache and no incidence of headache led to drug discontinuation. Dizziness (4% vs. 3%) and migraine (2% vs. 1%) are other CNS-related adverse events reported with tegaserod use.Data from 29 clinical studies were pooled and assessed for the risk of cardiovascular adverse events occurring in patients treated with tegaserod. Among the 29 studies, 7,031 patients received placebo and 11,614 patients, the majority of which were middle aged females, received tegaserod. Overall, the number of patients reported to have suffered cardiovascular related events was low; however, 13 tegaserod treated patients (0.1%) experienced a serious life threatening cardiovascular event. One death was recorded among 4 patients experiencing a heart attack, 6 patients experienced serious chest pain (unspecified), and 3 patients suffered a stroke. In comparison, only 1 patient (0.01%) receiving placebo experienced symptoms suggestive of a stroke, and symptoms resolved without further complication. Other reports of cardiovascular events associated with tegaserod therapy exist. A single case report documents the occurrence of myocardial infarction in a patient who had received two 6-mg doses of tegaserod, which is primarily a 5HT-4-agonist. The authors hypothesize the cardiac event may have been due to the partial 5HT-1-receptor agonist activity exhibited by tegaserod. Cardiac adverse events have also been reported for the anti-migraine agents (i.e., the triptans, such as sumatriptan), which are potent 5HT-1 agonists. Tegaserod should be reserved for refractory patients were alternative treatment is not feasible. If indicated, use tegaserod with extreme caution in patients with cardiac disease or a history of myocardial infarction.Orthostatic hypotension has been reported to occur infrequently in patients receiving higher doses of tegaserod. One subject, receiving 24 mg of tegaserod, discontinued the study due to orthostatic hypotension. The causal relationship of orthostatic hypotension with tegaserod is uncertain. No other clinically relevant cardiovascular effects, including QT-interval prolongation, other ECG changes, alterations in blood pressure or heart rate have been noted. Musculoskeletal disorders such as back pain (5% tegaserod vs. 4% placebo) and arthropathy (2% vs. 1%) occurred infrequently. Leg pain was also reported in 1% of tegaserod-treated patients, but occurred at a similar rate to placebo.In post-market reports, alopecia and hypersensitivity reactions including rash (unspecified), urticaria, pruritus, and serious allergic Type I reactions (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions) have occurred in patients taking tegaserod.The following events were also reported in at least 2 patients during tegaserod Phase III trials, and occurred more often with tegaserod than with placebo: albuminuria, angina pectoris, appendicitis, arrhythmia, asthma, attempted suicide, bilirubinemia, breast carcinoma, bundle branch block, cramps, depression, emotional liability, eructation, facial edema, fecal incontinence, flushing, frequent micturition, hypotension, impaired concentration, increased appetite, increased creatine phosphokinase, increased sweating, irritable colon, menorrhagia, miscarriage, ovarian cyst, pain, polyuria, pruritus, renal pain, sleep disorder, sub ileus, supraventricular tachycardia, syncope, tenesmus, vertigo. The causality of tegaserod in relation to these adverse events is not known. Ovarian cysts have been reported in clinical trials with tegaserod, but a causal relationship has not been demonstrated. The manufacturer noted that 9 ovarian cysts have been reported in clinical trials (one patient on placebo). In 5 patients, the ovarian cyst was confirmed (including the one placebo patient), and 4 cysts were not confirmed. It appears these reports came from a population of approximately 4000 patients receiving tegaserod.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
    Headline
    abdominal pain, appetite stimulation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, nausea
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse events are the most common side effects of tegaserod. Diarrhea is one of the most common adverse reactions associated with tegaserod and may aggravate certain GI disease. Serious consequences of diarrhea, including hypovolemia, hypotension, electrolyte disorders, and syncope have been reported with tegaserod treatment, in some instances requiring hospitalization for rehydration. Diarrhea was reported in 8% of female patients receiving tegaserod for irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) compared to 3% of subjects receiving placebo. The majority (84%) of the tegaserod patients reporting diarrhea had a single episode. In most cases, diarrhea occurred within the first week of treatment. Typically, diarrhea resolved with continued therapy. Diarrhea resulted in discontinuation in 1.6% of tegaserod-treated patients compared to 0% in placebo. Tegaserod should be discontinued immediately in any patient who develops diarrhea, hypotension or syncope. In addition to diarrhea, the following adverse effects were reported in more than 2% of female patients receiving tegaserod for IBS-C: abdominal pain (11% vs. 10% placebo), dyspepsia (4% vs. 3% placebo), flatulence (6% vs. 5% placebo), and nausea (8% vs. 7% placebo). Increased appetite or appetite stimulation was reported in 2% or less of female patients receiving tegaserod for IBS-C. Some medications, such as lactulose, magnesium salts, misoprostol, stool softeners, some antibiotics, polyethylene glycol, cholinergic agents and stimulant laxatives may aggravate the diarrhea induced by tegaserod. Bulk-producing laxatives, such as psyllium and fiber have been used safely in combination with tegaserod.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      appetite stimulation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bowel ischemia, bowel necrosis, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, colitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, GI bleeding, hepatitis, hypokalemia, ischemic colitis, syncope
    General Information
    In post-marketing reports, ischemic colitis, mesenteric or bowel ischemia, bowel necrosis, gangrenous bowel, GI bleeding (rectal bleeding), and syncope have been noted although the numbers are too small to assign causality. Sphincter of Oddi spasm, bile duct stones (cholelithiasis), cholecystitis with elevated hepatic enzymes (elevated ALT, AST, and bilirubin), and hepatitis have also been reported spontaneously. Hypokalemia secondary to diarrhea has been reported. Because these cases are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. An increase in cholecystectomies was observed in trials with tegaserod (5/2965; 0.17%) vs. placebo (1/1740; 0.06%), which lead to a higher number of abdominal surgeries in general for tegaserod (9/2965; 0.3%) vs. placebo (3/1740; 0.2%). A causal relationship between increased numbers of abdominal surgeries and tegaserod has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bowel ischemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bowel necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      cholecystitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ischemic colitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    asthenia, dizziness, headache, migraine, vertigo
    General Information
    In clinical trials, 14% to 15% of patients receiving tegaserod reported headache vs. 10% to 12% of the placebo group. Mild to moderate headache has been reported to occur from 0.5 to 11 hours after administration of tegaserod. In some subjects the headaches persisted for up to 40 hours. The incidence of headache was dose-dependent, but the intensity did not increase with the dose. It has not been reported if headache is a transient or recurrent side effect of tegaserod. A similar incidence of headache was reported in a large extension trial, studying the long-term safety and tolerability of tegaserod in chronic constipation. Few patients reported severe headache and no incidence of headache led to drug discontinuation. Dizziness (4% vs. 3%) and migraine (2% vs. 1%) are other CNS-related adverse events reported with tegaserod use. Vertigo and asthenia were reported in 2% or less of female patients receiving tegaserod for irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), myocardial infarction, stroke
    General Information
    Stroke, myocardial infarction (MI), and cardiovascular death (major adverse cardiovascular events [MACE]) have been reported in adults taking tegaserod who had an increased risk of developing an adverse cardiovascular event based on their medical history. A retrospective analysis of 29 placebo-controlled trials of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) and other gastrointestinal motility disorders of at least 4 weeks duration was conducted. An external adjudication of the reported cardiovascular ischemic (CVI) events identified an imbalance in patients taking tegaserod (13 events, 0.1%) compared to placebo (1 event, 0.01%). One death was recorded among 4 patients experiencing a heart attack, 6 patients experienced serious chest pain (unspecified), and 3 patients suffered a stroke. A second external adjudication was conducted with additional patient-level information, and used a comprehensive pre-specified methodology regarding both case selection and assessment. This adjudication confirmed 7 CVI events (0.06%) on tegaserod compared to 1 event (0.01%) on placebo. An imbalance in MACE events (defined as cardiovascular death, non-fatal MI, non-fatal stroke) was observed in patients taking tegaserod compared to placebo, as reported in both external adjudications. All events occurred in male and female patients with a history of cardiovascular ischemic disease and/or more than 1 cardiovascular risk factor. The rate of MACE events confirmed in 2 external adjudications of the clinical trial database for tegaserod-treated patients ranged from 0.03% to 0.06% in the overall population and 0.01% to 0.03% in the female population less than 65 years of age without a history of cardiovascular ischemic disease compared to zero in the placebo-treated group. Increased blood creatine phosphokinase was reported in 2% or less of female patients receiving tegaserod for IBS-C.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    orthostatic hypotension
    General Information
    Orthostatic hypotension has been reported to occur infrequently in patients receiving higher doses of tegaserod. One subject, receiving 24 mg of tegaserod, discontinued the study due to orthostatic hypotension. The causal relationship of orthostatic hypotension with tegaserod is uncertain. No other clinically relevant cardiovascular effects, including QT-interval prolongation, other ECG changes, alterations in blood pressure or heart rate have been noted.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthropathy
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal disorders such as arthropathy and tendonitis occurred in 2% or less of patients receiving tegaserod.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthropathy
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia, anaphylactoid reactions
    General Information
    During postmarketing experience with tegaserod, alopecia and hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactoid reactions have occurred.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Suicide, suicidal attempt and suicidal ideation, and self-injurious behavior have been reported in clinical trials of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) and other gastrointestinal motility disorders. Two tegaserod-treated patients committed suicide, 1 in a controlled study of IBS-C and 1 during open label treatment for another motility disorder. In 27 placebo-controlled trials, assessing tegaserod at a total daily dose of 4 mg to 50 mg (up to 4 times the recommended daily dose), or placebo for the treatment of IBS-C or other gastrointestinal motility disorders, the frequency of suicidal ideation/behavior with tegaserod treatment (8 events/10,003, or 0.08%) was higher than placebo (1 event/5,425, or 0.02%). Events on tegaserod included 1 completed suicide, 2 suicide attempts, 4 cases of self-injurious behavior, and 1 case of suicidal ideation. There was 1 suicide attempt on placebo. Of the 8 tegaserod-treated patients who experienced an event, all were less than 65 years of age, 7 were female and 3 had IBS-C. The patient who committed suicide was a female, less than 65 years of age with IBS-C, taking tegaserod 2 mg twice daily. Monitor all tegaserod-treated patients for clinical worsening of depression and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors, especially during the initial few months of treatment. Counsel family members and caregivers of patients to monitor for changes in behavior and to alert the healthcare provider. Instruct patients to immediately discontinue tegaserod and contact their healthcare provider if their depression is persistently worse or they are experiencing emergent suicidal thoughts or behaviors.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    Anemia was reported in 2% or less of female patients receiving tegaserod for irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Tegaserod is an oral, selective serotonin (5HT-4) partial agonist belonging to a chemical class known as the aminoguanidine indoles. Tegaserod is indicated for the treatment of adult women less than 65 years of age with irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C). Safety and efficacy have not been established in men. Tegaserod has been shown to be effective in treating abdominal pain, altered bowel habit (decreased stool frequency, hardened stool consistency, straining), and bloating associated with IBS-C. Guidelines recommend tegaserod be used to treat IBS-C symptoms only in women younger than 65 years with 1 or less cardiovascular risk factors who have not adequately responded to secretagogues (e.g., lubiprostone, guanylate cyclase-C agonists). During clinical trials, significantly more tegaserod-treated patients than placebo-treated patients reported abdominal pain/discomfort and bloating improvements in the first 4 weeks of treatment. Frequency of bowel movements also increased from a median number of 3.8 per week at baseline to 6.3 per week at month one. A modest therapeutic gain of 12% to 15% vs. placebo has been noted for global IBS-C symptoms; efficacy continues with long-term treatment (i.e., 12-months). There have been reports of cardiovascular ischemic events, suicidal ideation, and bowel ischemia with tegaserod use. Discontinue in women who do not achieve adequate symptom control after 4 to 6 weeks of treatment.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Tegaserod, a selective serotonin (5HT4) partial agonist, stimulates the peristaltic reflex. Intestinal 5HT4 receptors are involved in motor, sensory and secretory functions. Peristalsis occurs due to release of inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmitters via activation of the intrinsic afferent neurons in the GI mucosa. Additionally, increases in colonic sodium and water secretion produce a softer stool. In animal models, tegaserod has also been shown to reduce extrinsic afferent firing (i.e., through the spinal cord) and thus visceral pain sensation. These actions result in the relief of pain, discomfort and altered stool form associated with constipation-predominant IBS. Tegaserod has negligible affinity for the 5HT3 receptor or dopamine, but possesses 21% intrinsic activity at the 5HT4 receptor. Tegaserod has moderate affinity at the 5HT1 receptor. As a partial agonist, tegaserod has a lower likelihood of inducing receptor desensitization compared to full agonists, theoretically lowering the likelihood for tachyphylaxis or tolerance.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Tegaserod is administered orally. Following rapid absorption, tegaserod reaches peak plasma concentrations in 1 hour. The absolute bioavailability is roughly 10%, but coadministration with food decreases bioavailability by 40% to 65% and Cmax by 20% to 40%. Similar reductions in plasma concentrations occur when tegaserod is administered within 30 minutes prior to a meal, or 2.5 hours after a meal. The reduced bioavailability appears to be due to a decrease in the extent, but not the rate of absorption. The Tmax of tegaserod is prolonged from approximately 1 hour to 2 hours when taken following a meal, but decreased to 0.7 hours when taken 30 minutes prior to a meal. The manufacturer recommends administration at least 30 minutes before a meal.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In subjects with mild hepatic impairment, mean tegaserod AUC was 31% higher and Cmax 16% higher compared to normal subjects. In a single subject with moderate hepatic impairment, the Cmax and AUC were 140% and 200% of that observed in healthy controls. Tegaserod has not been studied in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) and use is contraindicated in these patients.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No change in the pharmacokinetics of tegaserod was observed in subjects with end stage renal disease (creatinine clearance normalized by body surface area (CrCL) less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2) requiring hemodialysis. Although renal impairment does not affect the pharmacokinetics of tegaserod, the pharmacokinetics of its main metabolite (M29) are altered, the Cmax of M29 doubling and the AUC increasing 10-fold in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCL less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2) compared to healthy subjects with normal renal function (CrCL greater than 80 mL/minute/1.73 m2). Tegaserod is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2) or end-stage renal disease.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Tegaserod is not indicated for patients 65 years of age and older.
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Tegaserod is approximately 98% protein-bound, primarily to alpha1-acid glycoprotein. Multiple-dose studies have confirmed there is no plasma accumulation of tegaserod. However, it exhibits pronounced distribution into the tissues following IV administration, as evidenced by a large volume of distribution. The estimated terminal half-life is 11+/-5 hours. After oral administration, acid hydrolysis occurs in the stomach followed by hepatic oxidation and glucuronidation. The main metabolite, a glucuronide, has negligible affinity at the 5HT4 receptor. Approximately two-thirds of tegaserod is excreted as the parent drug in the feces, and one-third as the main metabolite in the urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none
Tegaserod does not inhibit CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4, and it does not induce CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Limited induction of CYP1A2 was observed at tegaserod concentrations in excess of 100 times the clinically relevant range. M29, the main metabolite of tegaserod, does not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4, and it does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, or CYP3A4. Tegaserod is a substrate for BCRP and P-gp, but not a substrate of OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, MATE1, MATE2-K or BSEP. Drug transporter data indicated a potential inhibition of MATE1, MATE2-K, and BCRP by tegaserod at high concentrations. However, at the clinical dose of tegaserod, a significant in vivo drug interaction via inhibition of these transporters is unlikely. M29 is a substrate of BCRP, P-gp, OAT3 and BSEP transporters, but not a substrate of OAT1, OCT1, OCT2, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, MATE1, and MATE2-K. M29 does not inhibit the following transporters: OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, MATE1, MATE2-K, BCRP, P-gp, and BSEP.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer tegaserod at least 30 minutes before meals.
Do not administer on an 'as needed' basis.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    12 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    12 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Use not established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Use not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Tegaserod is contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C). No dosage adjustment is required in patients with mild hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 and greater: No dosage adjustment is recommended.
eGFR less than 15 mL/min/1.73 m2 or end stage renal disease: Use is contraindicated.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Pharmacokinetic parameters were not altered in hemodialysis patients. However, tegaserod is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment.
 
Continuous hemodialysis
Pharmacokinetic parameters were not altered in hemodialysis patients. However, tegaserod is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment.
