=== Vorapaxar (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3857)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Vorapaxar is a competitive and selective antagonist of protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR-1), the major thrombin receptor on human platelets.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 2.08 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bleeding, gi bleeding, intracranial bleeding

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Vorapaxar is contraindicated in individuals with active pathological bleeding, including intracranial bleeding or GI bleeding (e.g., peptic ulcer).

Brand Names
  - Zontivity

Dosage Forms
  - Zontivity 2.08mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2.08 mg PO once daily with aspirin and/or clopidogrel according to their indications or standard of care.
    Heading
    For secondary myocardial infarction prophylaxis or stroke prophylaxis or thrombosis prophylaxis for reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with a history of myocardial infarction or with peripheral arterial disease

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bleeding, bleeding disorder, hepatic failure, renal failure, renal impairment, stroke
    General Information
    Vorapaxar is contraindicated in individuals with active pathological bleeding, including intracranial bleeding or GI bleeding (e.g., peptic ulcer). Vorapaxar is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or intracranial bleeding. Vorapaxar increases the risk of bleeding in proportion to the individual's underlying bleeding risk. Consider the underlying bleeding risk prior to initiation of vorapaxar. General risk factors for bleeding include older age, low body weight, history of bleeding disorder, renal impairment, or renal failure, hepatic impairment, and coadministration with certain medications. Use of vorapaxar is not recommended in individuals with hepatic failure due to the increased risk of bleeding. Suspect bleeding in individuals receiving vorapaxar who present with hypotension and have recently undergone surgery, coronary angiography, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), or coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). Significant inhibition of platelet aggregation remains for 4 weeks after discontinuation of vorapaxar; therefore, withholding a dose of vorapaxar will not be useful in managing a bleeding event or reducing the risk of bleeding in preparation for an invasive procedure. There is no known treatment to reverse the antiplatelet effect of vorapaxar.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Geriatric individuals are generally at a higher risk of bleeding; therefore, consider the age of the individual before initiating vorapaxar therapy.
    Headline
    planned procedure
    General Information
    Instruct individuals to inform health care providers and dentists that they are taking vorapaxar prior to any planned procedure (e.g., any surgery or dental procedure). Consult with the prescribing health care provider before discontinuing vorapaxar prior to surgery or dental procedures.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Discontinue vorapaxar when pregnancy is detected and initiate alternate therapy with a shorter duration of action. Vorapaxar has the potential for serious adverse reactions, such as bleeding or hemorrhage in the pregnant individual, and its long half-life makes it effectively irreversible. Data from postmarketing experience with vorapaxar use during human pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. No adverse embryo-fetal toxicities, malformations, or maternal toxicities were observed in rats and rabbits exposed to vorapaxar during organogenesis at exposures 56 times and 26 times, respectively, the human systemic exposure at the recommended human dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid breast-feeding while taking vorapaxar. There are no data on the presence of vorapaxar in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. However, vorapaxar has the potential for serious side effects, such as bleeding, in the breast-fed child. Vorapaxar is present in the milk of lactating rats.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Discontinue vorapaxar when pregnancy is detected and initiate alternate therapy with a shorter duration of action. Vorapaxar has the potential for serious adverse reactions, such as bleeding or hemorrhage in the pregnant individual, and its long half-life makes it effectively irreversible. Data from postmarketing experience with vorapaxar use during human pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. No adverse embryo-fetal toxicities, malformations, or maternal toxicities were observed in rats and rabbits exposed to vorapaxar during organogenesis at exposures 56 times and 26 times, respectively, the human systemic exposure at the recommended human dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid breast-feeding while taking vorapaxar. There are no data on the presence of vorapaxar in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. However, vorapaxar has the potential for serious side effects, such as bleeding, in the breast-fed child. Vorapaxar is present in the milk of lactating rats.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with vorapaxar is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with adagrasib due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
ADP receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as ADP receptor antagonists including clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and clarithromycin. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar and anagrelide inhibit platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadminsitered.
Antithrombin III: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
Antithymocyte Globulin: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and apalutamide due to decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased vorapaxar exposure by 55%; the impact on efficacy for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Apixaban: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if vorapaxar and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in vorapaxar-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of vorapaxar. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Armodafinil: (Minor) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and armodafinil. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with armodafinil, a mild inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy. (Moderate) Because vorapaxar and dipyridamole inhibit platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadminsitered.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and atazanavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with atazanavir, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and atazanavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with atazanavir, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) When used as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), bivalirudin is intended for use with aspirin (300 to 325 mg/day PO) and has been studied only in patients receiving concomitant aspirin. Generally, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (other than aspirin). In clinical trials in patients undergoing PTCA, patients receiving bivalirudin with heparin, warfarin, or thrombolytics had increased risks of major bleeding events compared to those receiving bivalirudin alone. According to the manufacturer, the safety and effectiveness of bivalirudin have not been established when used in conjunction with platelet inhibitors other than aspirin. However, bivalirudin has been safely used as an alternative to heparin in combination with provisional use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors during angioplasty (REPLACE-2). In addition, two major clinical trials have evaluated the use of bivalirudin in patients receiving streptokinase following acute myocardial infarction (HERO-1, HERO-2). Based on the these trials, bivalirudin may be considered an alternative to heparin therapy for use in combination with streptokinase for ST-elevation MI. Bivalirudin has not been sufficiently studied in combination with other more specific thrombolytics.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and platelet inhibitors when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and carbamazepine. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with carbamazepine, a strong CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with ceritinib due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and chloramphenicol. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with chloramphenicol, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar and cilostazol inhibit platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadminsitered.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and cimetidine. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with cimetidine, a mild CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Cladribine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and clarithromycin. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as ADP receptor antagonists including clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and cocaine. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with cocaine, a mild CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking platelet inhibitors is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking a platelet inhibitor within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and cyclosporine. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with cyclosporine, a mild CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Dabigatran: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and warfarin or other anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants. In a phase II trial, aspirin (81 mg or 325 mg) was randomly assigned to patients with atrial fibrillation receiving dabigatran (150 mg twice daily). Data obtained from logistic regression analysis suggest that the concomitant administration of aspirin and dabigatran may increase the risk of bleeding from 12% to 18% (81 mg aspirin) or 24% (325 mg aspirin). Monitor patients closely for signs of bleeding if dabigatran is given concomitantly with other platelet inhibitors.
Dabrafenib: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and dabrafenib. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with dabrafenib, a CYP3A inducer.
Dalteparin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and warfarin or other anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and darunavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with darunavir, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and darunavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with darunavir, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and darunavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with darunavir, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and dasatinib. Due to the thrombocytopenic and possible platelet inhibiting effects of dasatinib, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with dasatinib, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like platelet inhibitors is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue antithrombotic agents prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deoxycholic Acid: (Moderate) Use deoxycholic acid with caution in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Excessive bruising or bleeding may occur in and around the treatment area.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as desvenlafaxine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and diltiazem. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with diltiazem, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar and dipyridamole inhibit platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadminsitered.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and dronedarone. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with dronedarone, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as duloxetine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Edoxaban: (Major) Coadministration of edoxaban and platelet inhibitors should be avoided due to an increased risk of bleeding during concurrent use. Occasionally, short-term coadministration may be necessary in patients transitioning to and from edoxaban. Long-term coadminstration is not recommended. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss in patients on concomitant therapy.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and efavirenz. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with efavirenz, a CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and efavirenz. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with efavirenz, a CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and efavirenz. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with efavirenz, a CYP3A inducer.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering vorapaxar with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated vorapaxar plasma concentrations. Vorapaxar is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and encorafenib due to decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased vorapaxar exposure by 55%; the impact on efficacy for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Enoxaparin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and warfarin or other anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with ensitrelvir due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and enzalutamide due to decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased vorapaxar exposure by 55%; the impact on efficacy for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and erythromycin. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with erythromycin, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Eslicarbazepine: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and eslicarbazepine. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with eslicarbazepine, a CYP3A inducer.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and etravirine. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with etravirine, a CYP3A inducer.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with other platelet inhibitors. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and fluconazole. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with fluconazole, a mild CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Fludarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Flutamide: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and flutamide. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with flutamide, an inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Fondaparinux: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and other anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and fosamprenavir. Fosamprenavir may inhibit or induce CYP3A4 and may alter serum concentrations of other drugs metabolized by this enzyme. Increased or decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with fosamprenavir. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications while decreased exposure to vorapaxar may reduce efficacy.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and phenytoin or fosphenytoin. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with phenytoin, a strong CYP3A inducer.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Use together with caution. Garlic produces clinically significant antiplatelet effects, and a risk for bleeding may occur if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with garlic.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) Ginger inhibits thromboxane synthetase, a platelet aggregation inducer, and is a prostacyclin agonist so additive bleeding may occur if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with ginger, zingiber officinale.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and platelet inhibitors as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Heparin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and warfarin or other anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with platelet function such as platelet inhibitors; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with platelet inhibitors is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Icosapent ethyl is an ethyl ester of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Because omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when icosapent ethyl is used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 36 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant icosapent ethyl therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and imatinib. Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of imatinib an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with imatinib, STI-571, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and vorapaxar due to the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of vorapaxar in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with other platelet inhibitors. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with vorapaxar may result in increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar which may increase the risk of bleeding complications. Vorapaxar is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid vorapaxar during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole treatment due to increase vorapaxar exposure and bleeding risk. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and clarithromycin. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Administering letermovir with vorapaxar may increase vorapaxar concentration. Avoid coadministration in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with lonafarnib due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and ritonavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with ritonavir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Low Molecular Weight Heparins: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and warfarin or other anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is expected to reduce the efficacy of vorapaxar by significantly decreasing its systemic exposure; avoid concomitant use. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A substrate, and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is expected to reduce the efficacy of vorapaxar by significantly decreasing its systemic exposure; avoid concomitant use. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A substrate, and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and mifepristone. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 and CYP2J2 substrate, is coadministered with mifepristone, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of milnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with vorapaxar; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of vorapaxar. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and modafinil. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with modafinil, a CYP3A inducer.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Platelet Inhibitors inhibit platelet aggregation and should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia, as mycophenolate can also cause thrombocytopenia.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Nafcillin: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and nafcillin. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with nafcillin, an inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and nefazodone. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with nefazodone, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Nelarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and nelfinavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with nelfinavir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and nicardipine. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Nicardipine inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with nicardipine. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and ritonavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with ritonavir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications. (Major) Consider temporary discontinuation of vorapaxar during treatment with ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and for at least 2 to 3 days after treatment completion; if not feasible, consider alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase vorapaxar exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Obinutuzumab: (Moderate) Fatal hemorrhagic events have been reported in patients treated with obinutuzumab; all events occured during cycle 1. Monitor all patients for thrombocytopenia and bleeding, and consider withholding concomitant medications which may increase bleeding risk (i.e., anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors), especially during the first cycle.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and rifabutin. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with rifabutin, a CYP3A inducer.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Pentosan: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant with 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and warfarin or other anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
Pentostatin: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) A potential additive risk for bleeding exists if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as pentoxifylline.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and perampanel. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with perampanel, an inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and phenobarbital or primidone. Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Phenobarbital and primidone are strong CYP3A inducers. Other barbiturates also induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and phenobarbital or primidone. Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Phenobarbital and primidone are strong CYP3A inducers. Other barbiturates also induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and topiramate. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with topiramate, a mild inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro. In addition, concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that affect platelet function such as platelet inhibitors may increase the risk of bleeding. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials, bleeding was more frequently reported in patients receiving topiramate (4.5%) compared to placebo (23%). In those with severe bleeding events, patients were often taking drugs that cause thrombocytopenia or affect platelet function or coagulation.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and phenytoin. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with phenytoin, a strong CYP3A inducer.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Platelet Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa Inhibitors: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and posaconazole. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with posaconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as ADP receptor antagonists including clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and phenobarbital or primidone. Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Phenobarbital and primidone are strong CYP3A inducers. Other barbiturates also induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Purine analogs: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and quinine. Quinine inhibits CYP3A and induced CYP3A4 in an in vitro study. Increased or decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with quinine. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications while decreased exposure to vorapaxar may reduce efficacy.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ranolazine. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with ranolazine, a mild CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with relacorilant due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with ribociclib due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with ribociclib due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and rifabutin. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with rifabutin, a CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and rifampin. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with rifampin, a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and rifapentine due to decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased vorapaxar exposure by 55%; the impact on efficacy for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and ritonavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with ritonavir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and warfarin or other anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and saquinavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with saquinavir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and ethinyl estradiol. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ethinyl estradiol inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar is coadministered with ethinyl estradiol. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Selumetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of platelet inhibitors and selumetinib oral capsules. Selumetinib capsules contain vitamin E which may inhibit platelet aggregation and increase the risk for bleeding. Vitamin E content varies by capsule: each 10 mg capsule contains 32 mg alpha-tocopherol, each 25 mg capsule contains 36 mg alpha-tocopherol. Tolerable Upper Intake Levels of vitamin E vary by age and range from 200 to 1,000 mg alpha-tocopherol per day.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and St. John's Wort. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with St. John's Wort, a strong CYP3A inducer.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as ADP receptor antagonists including clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and tipranavir. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with tipranavir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and topiramate. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with topiramate, a mild inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro. In addition, concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that affect platelet function such as platelet inhibitors may increase the risk of bleeding. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials, bleeding was more frequently reported in patients receiving topiramate (4.5%) compared to placebo (23%). In those with severe bleeding events, patients were often taking drugs that cause thrombocytopenia or affect platelet function or coagulation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and verapamil. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with verapamil, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with tucatinib due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and vemurafenib. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with vemurafenib, a CYP3A inducer.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as venlafaxine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as vorapaxar. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and verapamil. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with verapamil, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with platelet inhibitors is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and clarithromycin. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with voriconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and warfarin or other anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and zafirlukast. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with zafirlukast, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    bleeding, GI bleeding, intracranial bleeding
    General Information
    Antiplatelet agents such as vorapaxar increase the risk of bleeding including intracranial hemorrhage and fatal bleeding. The risk of bleeding is increased in proportion to the patient's underlying bleeding risk including use of concomitant drugs that affect hemostasis. In clinical trials, the severity of bleeding was defined by the Global Utilization of Streptokinase and Tissue Plasminogen Activator for Occluded Arteries (GUSTO) criteria. GUSTO severe bleeding (defined as fatal, intracranial, or bleeding with hemodynamic compromise requiring intervention) was reported in 1% of patients in the vorapaxar group compared to 0.8% of patients in the placebo group (HR 1.24, 95% CI 0.92 to 1.66). Fatal bleeding was reported in 0.2% of patients in the vorapaxar group compared with 0.1% of patients in the placebo group (HR 1.15, 95% CI 0.56 to 2.36). Intracranial bleeding was reported in 0.4% of patients in the vorapaxar group compared to 0.3% of patients in the placebo group (HR 1.46, 95% CI 0.92 to 2.31). GUSTO moderate (defined as bleeding requiring transfusion of whole blood or packed red blood cells without hemodynamic compromise) or severe bleeding was reported in 3.7% of patients in the vorapaxar group compared to 2% of patients in the placebo group (HR 1.55, 95% CI 1.3 to 1.86). Any GUSTO bleeding was reported in 25% of patients in the vorapaxar group compared to 17.6% of patients in the placebo group (HR 1.52, 95% CI 1.43 to 1.61). Clinically significant bleeding was reported in 13.4% of patients in the vorapaxar group compared to 9.5% of patients in the placebo group (HR 1.47, 95% CI 1.35 to 1.6). GI bleeding was reported in 4% of patients in the vorapaxar group compared to 3% of patients in the placebo group (HR 1.37, 95% CI 1.18 to 1.59). Significant inhibition of platelet aggregation remains for 4 weeks after discontinuation of vorapaxar; therefore, withholding a dose of vorapaxar will not be useful in managing a bleeding event or reducing the risk of bleeding in preparation for an invasive procedure. There is no known treatment to reverse the antiplatelet effect of vorapaxar.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    Anemia was reported in 5% of patients treated with vorapaxar in clinical trials compared to 4% of patients treated with placebo. Iron deficiency occurred in < 2% of patients in the vorapaxar group but at a rate at least 40% greater than placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression
    General Information
    Depression was reported in 2.4% of patients in the vorapaxar group in clinical trials compared to 2.1% of patients in the placebo group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash (unspecified)
    General Information
    Rash (unspecified) was reported in 2.2% of patients in the vorapaxar group in clinical trials compared to 2% of patients in the placebo group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    diplopia, retinopathy
    General Information
    Adverse reactions reported in < 2% of patients in the vorapaxar group in clinical trials but at a rate at least 40% greater than placebo include retinopathy or retinal disorder. An increased rate of diplopia and related oculomotor disturbances was observed with vorapaxar treatment (30 subjects, 0.2%) vs. placebo (10 subjects, 0.06%). Although information was not available for all cases, some cases resolved during continued treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retinopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Vorapaxar is a competitive and selective antagonist of protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR-1), the major thrombin receptor on human platelets. It is approved for reduction in risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, cardiovascular death, and need for coronary revascularization in patients with a previous myocardial infarction or peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Vorapaxar potently inhibits thrombin-related platelet aggregation thereby decreasing the formation of blood clots. Like other agents that interfere with clotting, vorapaxar increases the risk of bleeding, including life-threatening or fatal bleeding. Vorapaxar was granted FDA approval based on results of the Thrombin Receptor Antagonist in Secondary Prevention of Atherothrombotic Ischemic Events (TRA 2P)–Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 50 trial. More than 25,000 patients with a history of myocardial infarction (MI), ischemic stroke, or PAD were randomized to vorapaxar or placebo in addition to standard therapy (i.e., aspirin and/or thineopyridines) with a median follow-up of 30 months. After 2 years, the data and safety monitoring board recommended discontinuation of vorapaxar in patients with a history of stroke including those with a new stroke during the trial due to an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage in this population. In post-MI or PAD patients without a history of stroke or transient ischemic attack, the 3-year Kaplan-Meier (K-M) event rate for the primary efficacy endpoint (composite of time to first cardiovascular death, MI, stroke, or urgent coronary revascularization) was 10.1% in the vorapaxar group compared to 11.8% in the placebo group (HR 0.83, 95% CI 0.76 to 0.9; p < 0.001). The K-M event rate for the key secondary efficacy endpoint (composite of time to first CV death, MI, or stroke) was 7.9% in the vorapaxar group compared to 9.5% in the placebo group (HR 0.80, 95% CI 0.73 to 0.89; p < 0.001). Vorapaxar was FDA-approved in May 2014.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Vorapaxar antagonizes the protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR-1) expressed on platelets. Although vorapaxar is a reversible PAR-1 antagonist, its long half-life makes it effectively irreversible. In vitro, vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation induced by thrombin and thrombin receptor agonist peptide (TRAP). Vorapaxar does not inhibit platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate (ADP), collagen, or a thromboxane mimetic and does not affect coagulation parameters ex vivo. PAR-1 receptors are also expressed in a wide variety of cell types, including endothelial cells, neurons, and smooth muscle cells; however, the pharmacodynamic effects of vorapaxar in these cell types have not been assessed.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, the bioavailability of vorapaxar is approximately 100%. Peak serum concentrations are reached approximately 1 hour post-dose (range 1—2 hours) under fasted conditions. Ingestion of a high-fat meal results in a small decrease in Cmax (21%) and delayed time to peak concentration (45 minutes) but does not decrease overall exposure. Therefore, vorapaxar may be administered without regard to meals.
  Text
  Vorapaxar is administered orally. Within 1 week of treatment initiation, vorapaxar reaches >= 80% inhibition of thrombin receptor agonist peptide (TRAP)-induced platelet aggregation. The effective half-life of vorapaxar is 3—4 days, and the apparent terminal elimination half-life is approximately 8 days (range 5—13 days). Due to the long half-life of vorapaxar, 50% inhibition of TRAP-induced platelet aggregation can be expected at 4 weeks after discontinuation of daily therapy. Vorapaxar and its active metabolite, M20, are both highly bound to plasma proteins (>= 99%). Vorapaxar is highly bound to human serum albumin and does not preferentially distribute into red blood cells. The systemic exposure of M20 is approximately 20% of the exposure to vorapaxar. Vorapaxar is primarily eliminated in the feces. In a 6-week study, 84% of the administered radiolabeled dose was recovered as total radioactivity with 58% collected in feces and 25% in urine. Vorapaxar is eliminated primarily in the form of metabolites, with no unchanged vorapaxar detected in urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP3A4 and CYP2J2
Vorapaxar is eliminated by metabolism via CYP3A4 and CYP2J2. Vorapaxar is a weak P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor; however, based on in vivo test results with digoxin, a P-gp substrate, clinically significant interactions with P-gp substrates are not expected.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    May be administered with or without food.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    2.08 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    2.08 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Due to an increased risk of bleeding, vorapaxar is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is necessary.
