=== Gepirone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 728)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Gepirone is an oral antidepressant agent that is chemically related to buspirone.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 72.6 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, confusion, dizziness, fatigue, headache, hypoesthesia, insomnia, lethargy, mania, paresthesias, appetite stimulation, weight gain, dyspnea, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, hyperhidrosis, mastalgia, peripheral edema, pruritus, rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. In pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials of other antidepressant drugs that included approximately 77,000 adult patients and 4,500 pediatric patients, the incidence of suicidal...

Brand Names
  - EXXUA

Dosage Forms
  - Exxua 18.2mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Exxua 18.2mg Titration Pack Extended-Release Tablet
  - Exxua 36.3mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Exxua 54.5mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Exxua 72.6mg Extended-Release Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        18.2 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose to 36.3 mg/day on Day 4, 54.5 mg/day after Day 7, and 72.6 mg/day after an additional week based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 72.6 mg/day. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Older Adults
        Dosage Description
        18.2 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose to 36.3 mg/day after Day 7 based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 36.3 mg/day. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of major depression

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    adolescents, children, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    In pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials of other antidepressant drugs that included approximately 77,000 adult patients and 4,500 pediatric patients, the incidence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors (suicidal ideation) in antidepressant-treated children, adolescents and adults aged 24 years and younger was greater than in placebo-treated patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors among drugs, but there was an increased risk identified in young patients for most drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across the different indications, with the highest incidence in patients with MDD. It is unknown whether the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, adolescents, and young adults extends to longer-term use (i.e., beyond 4 months). However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with MDD that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression and that depression itself is a risk factor for suicidal thoughts and behaviors. Monitor all antidepressant-treated patients for clinical worsening, suicidal ideation, and unusual mood or behavior changes, especially during the initial few months of therapy and at times of dosage changes. Counsel family members or caregivers of patients to monitor for changes in behavior and to alert the healthcare provider. Consider changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing gepirone, in patients whose depression is persistently worse or who are experiencing emergent suicidal thoughts or behaviors.
    Headline
    bipolar disorder
    General Information
    Activation of mania, hypomania, or a mixed episode may occur with medications used to treat depression, especially in people predisposed to bipolar disorder. A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. Prior to initiating treatment with gepirone, people with depressive symptoms should be screened for risk factors for bipolar disorder, including a detailed personal psychiatric history and family history of bipolar disorder, suicide, and/or depression. If an individual taking gepirone develops symptoms consistent with mania or hypomania, the medication should be discontinued, and appropriate therapy should be initiated.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, heart failure, hypertension, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypothyroidism, myocardial infarction, QT prolongation, severe aortic stenosis, third-degree AV block, unstable angina
    General Information
    Gepirone prolongs the QTc interval, and the use of gepirone is contraindicated in patients with congenital long QT syndrome or with a QTc interval greater than 450 msec at baseline. Use gepirone with caution in people with conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Perform an electrocardiogram (ECG) prior to initiating gepirone, during dosage titration, and periodically during treatment. Monitor ECG more frequently if gepirone is used in patients with uncontrolled or significant cardiac disease, recent myocardial infarction, heart failure, unstable angina, bradyarrhythmias, uncontrolled hypertension, high degree atrioventricular block (third-degree AV block), severe aortic stenosis, or uncontrolled hypothyroidism. ECG should also be monitored more frequently when used concomitantly with medications known to prolong the QT interval, in patients who develop QTc of 450 msec or more during treatment, or in patients with significant risk of developing torsade de pointes. Dosage should not be increased if the QTcF is greater than 450 msec. Correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to gepirone initiation. In patients with electrolyte abnormalities, who are receiving diuretics or glucocorticoids, or have a history or hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, monitor electrolytes during dosage titration and periodically during treatment with gepirone.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Gepirone is contraindicated in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure due to the risk of increased gepirone plasma concentrations and subsequent risk of QTc interval prolongation. In people with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B), the metabolism of gepirone and its major metabolites is decreased and the maximum dosage per day must be reduced.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    In people with renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl less than 50 mL/minute), the metabolism and excretion of the mediation and some major metabolites is decreased. The maximum daily dosage of gepirone should be reduced.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The maximum recommended daily dosage of gepirone in geriatric adults is lower than in younger adult patients. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates antidepressant use in long-term care facilities. When an antidepressant is being used to manage behavior, stabilize mood, or treat a psychiatric disorder, tapering as outlined in the OBRA guidelines should be attempted unless clinically contraindicated. Dosages and durations of treatment used should align with prescribing labels, published literature recommendations, and expert guidelines.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are insufficient data on gepirone use during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Based on animal reproduction studies, gepirone has been shown to have adverse effects on embryo-fetal and postnatal development. In rats, increased mortality during the first 4 days after birth and persistent reduction in body weight through lactation and weaning were observed at all doses and increased stillbirths were seen with a no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) at 3 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on a mg/m2 basis. In embryo-fetal development studies in rats and rabbits, decreased embryo-fetal growth, body weights and lengths, with accompanying skeletal variations were seen with a NOAEL at 9 and 12 times the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis, respectively. Fetal exposure during the third trimester may result in complications consistent with direct toxicity or withdrawal. There are risks associated with untreated depression during pregnancy. Individuals who discontinue antidepressants during pregnancy are more likely to experience a relapse of major depression than those who continue antidepressants. This finding is from a prospective, longitudinal study of 201 pregnant people with a history of major depressive disorder who were euthymic and taking antidepressants at the beginning of pregnancy. Consider the risk of untreated depression when discontinuing or changing treatment with antidepressant medication during pregnancy and postpartum. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to antidepressants, including gepirone, during pregnancy. Health care providers are encouraged to register patients at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants/ or by calling 1-866-961-2388.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero during the third trimester may experience complications such as prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding upon delivery. Clinical findings include respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature instability, feeding difficulty, vomiting, hypoglycemia, hypotonia, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, tremor, jitteriness, irritability, and constant crying. These features are consistent with direct antidepressant toxicity, serotonin syndrome, and/or drug discontinuation syndrome. In addition, fetal exposure to SSRIs during late pregnancy has been associated with an increased risk of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN). Because PPHN is associated with significant morbidity and mortality, it is important that care teams are aware of SSRI exposure to avoid delays in diagnosis and treatment.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use gepirone with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of gepirone in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Gepirone is present in rat milk. If used during lactation, monitor the breastfed child for irritability, restlessness, excessive somnolence, decreased feeding, and weight loss, which have been reported in children exposed to other serotonergic antidepressants through breast milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for gepirone and any adverse effects on the breastfed child from gepirone or from the patient's underlying condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are insufficient data on gepirone use during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Based on animal reproduction studies, gepirone has been shown to have adverse effects on embryo-fetal and postnatal development. In rats, increased mortality during the first 4 days after birth and persistent reduction in body weight through lactation and weaning were observed at all doses and increased stillbirths were seen with a no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) at 3 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on a mg/m2 basis. In embryo-fetal development studies in rats and rabbits, decreased embryo-fetal growth, body weights and lengths, with accompanying skeletal variations were seen with a NOAEL at 9 and 12 times the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis, respectively. Fetal exposure during the third trimester may result in complications consistent with direct toxicity or withdrawal. There are risks associated with untreated depression during pregnancy. Individuals who discontinue antidepressants during pregnancy are more likely to experience a relapse of major depression than those who continue antidepressants. This finding is from a prospective, longitudinal study of 201 pregnant people with a history of major depressive disorder who were euthymic and taking antidepressants at the beginning of pregnancy. Consider the risk of untreated depression when discontinuing or changing treatment with antidepressant medication during pregnancy and postpartum. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to antidepressants, including gepirone, during pregnancy. Health care providers are encouraged to register patients at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants/ or by calling 1-866-961-2388.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use gepirone with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of gepirone in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Gepirone is present in rat milk. If used during lactation, monitor the breastfed child for irritability, restlessness, excessive somnolence, decreased feeding, and weight loss, which have been reported in children exposed to other serotonergic antidepressants through breast milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for gepirone and any adverse effects on the breastfed child from gepirone or from the patient's underlying condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and adagrasib is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and amphetamines is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and amphetamines is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamines: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and amphetamines is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with aprepitant/fosaprepitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and atazanavir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and atazanavir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Avacopan: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and methylene blue is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and amphetamines is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Berotralstat: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with berotralstat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, and monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, and monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and bupropion is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and bupropion is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and buspirone is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and butorphanol is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and metaxalone is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tramadol is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ceritinib is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and chloramphenicol is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with ciprofloxacin is necessary. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, and monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and clofazimine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and clozapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Conivaptan: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with conivaptan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and crizotinib may increase gepirone exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and cyclobenzaprine is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with cyclosporine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and darunavir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and darunavir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and darunavir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and dasatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and desvenlafaxine is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and dexmedetomidine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and methylphenidate is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and amphetamines is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and bupropion is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with diltiazem is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and dronedarone due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and duloxetine is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Duvelisib: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with duvelisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and eliglustat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and encorafenib due to the risk for decreased gepirone exposure and efficacy and increased risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and erythromycin may increase gepirone exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and escitalopram may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and etrasimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fedratinib: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with fedratinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and fenfluramine is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and fingolimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and fluconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase gepirone exposure and the risk for other gepirone-related adverse effects. Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP if concomitant use with fluconazole is necessary. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and fluoxetine may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of gepirone and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with fluvoxamine is necessary. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, TdP, and serotonin syndrome. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation and affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with fosamprenavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Frovatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and gemifloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and gemtuzumab ozogamicin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and granisetron may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during gepirone treatment due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure and adverse reactions. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and haloperidol may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and hydroxyzine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and methylene blue is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and idelalisib is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Imatinib: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with imatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and inotuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with isavuconazonium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and itraconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and lapatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and lasmiditan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Lefamulin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and lefamulin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase gepirone exposure and the risk for other gepirone-related adverse effects. Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP if concomitant use with oral lefamulin is necessary. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Letermovir: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with letermovir is necessary. Concomitant use of gepirone and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and levofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and levomilnacipran is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Linezolid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and linezolid is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and amphetamines is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and lithium may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and lonafarnib is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and lopinavir; ritonavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, lopinavir; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ritonavir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and gepirone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and mefloquine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and metaxalone is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, and monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and amphetamines is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and methylene blue is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Methylene Blue: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and methylene blue is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and methylphenidate is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and methylphenidate is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and mifepristone is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and milnacipran is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and mirtazapine may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and nalbuphine is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Naratriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and nefazodone is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and nelfinavir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with netupitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and palonosetron is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and nilotinib may increase gepirone exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ritonavir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with nirogacestat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and ofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and olanzapine may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and fluoxetine may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and olanzapine may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and olanzapine may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, and monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Opioid medications (selected): (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and palonosetron is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and paroxetine is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and pentazocine is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of gepirone and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of gepirone and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and posaconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and gepirone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of gepirone and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and dextromethorphan is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, and monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and ranolazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rasagiline: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and rasagiline is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and relacorilant is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ribociclib is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ribociclib is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and risperidone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ritonavir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and saquinavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and selegiline is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and methylphenidate is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and sertraline may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. QT prolongation with gepirone has also been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and solifenacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and St. John's wort is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies. Concomitant use may also decrease gepirone exposure and efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
SUMAtriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and sunitinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and tacrolimus may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and tamoxifen may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and tipranavir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and tolterodine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tramadol is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tramadol is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, and monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of gepirone and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and tricyclic antidepressants is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and tucatinib is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and vardenafil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and venlafaxine may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for serotonin syndrome and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Verapamil: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and vilazodone is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and voclosporin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and voriconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and vortioxetine is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Voxelotor: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and gepirone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, and monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
ZOLMitriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    agitation, confusion, dizziness, fatigue, headache, hypoesthesia, insomnia, lethargy, mania, paresthesias
    General Information
    In placebo-controlled, flexible-dose, clinical studies, dizziness was one of the most commonly reported adverse events, affecting 49% of patients on gepirone compared to 10% of patients on placebo. Dizziness was also a common reaction that led to discontinuation of treatment. Other CNS-related adverse effects reported in these clinical trials included headache (31% of patients on gepirone vs. 20% on placebo), fatigue (reported as sedation and somnolence; 15% on gepirone vs. 14% on placebo), insomnia (14% on gepirone vs. 5% on placebo), paresthesias (4% on gepirone vs. 1% on placebo), agitation (3% on gepirone and no patients on placebo), feeling jittery (3% on gepirone, no cases on placebo), and lethargy (2% on gepirone, no cases on placebo). Other adverse reactions observed in clinical trials and occurring in less than 2% of patients on gepirone (and more frequently than in the placebo arm) include confusion, increased energy, feeling abnormal, hypoesthesia, poor quality sleep, and abnormal thinking. While there were no reports of mania, hypomania, or a mixed episode of bipolar disorder in premarketing clinical trials, susceptible individuals may be at risk when treated with serotonergic antidepressants, like gepirone. Patients should be advised to report any signs or symptoms of mania or hypomania to their healthcare provider immediately.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, appetite stimulation, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, weight gain
    General Information
    In placebo-controlled, flexible-dose, clinical studies of gepirone, nausea was a common adverse effect, reported in 35% of patients on gepirone and 13% of patients on placebo. Nausea was also a common reason for discontinuation of treatment. Other gastrointestinal (GI) adverse effects reported in clinical trials included diarrhea (10% on gepirone vs. 9% on placebo), abdominal pain (7% vs. 3%), vomiting (7% vs. 4%), dyspepsia (6% vs. 2%), increased appetite (appetite stimulation; 5% vs. 3%), constipation (4% vs. 3%), and weight increased (weight gain; 3% vs. 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      appetite stimulation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dyspnea, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, xerostomia
    General Information
    In placebo-controlled, flexible-dose, clinical studies, several adverse effects of the respiratory tract were noted, including upper respiratory tract infections (affecting 8% of patients on gepirone vs. 7% on placebo), xerostomia (dry mouth) (8% vs. 5%), naso-pharyngitis (4% vs. 3%), and nasal congestion (4% vs. 2%). Dyspnea was also reported at an incidence of less than 2% of patients on gepirone and at a greater incidence than placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    palpitations, QT prolongation
    General Information
    In placebo-controlled, flexible-dose, clinical studies, palpitations were reported in 4% of patients on gepirone; there were no cases in the placebo arm. An increased heart rate was also reported in 2% of patients on gepirone, with no reports in the placebo arm. Gepirone treatment has been associated with QT prolongation. Patients receiving gepirone should have an ECG performed prior to initiation of treatment, during dose titration, and periodically during treatment to assess for changes in the QT interval. Patients should have an ECG monitored more frequently if used concomitantly with medications known to prolong the QT interval, in patients who develop a QTc of 450 msec or more during treatment, and/or in patients with a significant risk of developing torsade de pointes. Have patients seek immediate medical help if they feel faint, lose consciousness, or have heart palpitations.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Antidepressants can increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors, particularly in pediatric and young adult patients. Monitor all antidepressant-treated patients for worsening of depression and emergence of suicidal behaviors or suicidal ideation, especially during the initial few months of drug therapy and at times of dosage changes. In pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials of other antidepressant medications that included approximately 77,000 adult patients, and 4,500 pediatric patients, the incidence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in antidepressant-treated patients aged 24 years and younger was greater than in placebo-treated patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors among drugs, but there was an increased risk identified in young patients for most drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across the different indications, with the highest incidence in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). It is unknown whether the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, adolescents, and young adults extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond 4 months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with MDD that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression and that depression itself is a risk factor for suicidal thoughts and behaviors. Counsel family members or caregivers of patients to monitor for changes in behavior and to alert the health care provider if they occur. Consider changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing gepirone, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidal ideation or behaviors.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hyperhidrosis, mastalgia, peripheral edema
    General Information
    In placebo-controlled, flexible-dose, clinical trials, hyperhidrosis was reported in 4% of patients on gepirone. There were no reports of hyperhidrosis in the placebo arm. Other general adverse effects reported in less than 2% of patients receiving gepirone (and more often than in the placebo arm) included breast tenderness (mastalgia) and peripheral edema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mastalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    In placebo-controlled, flexible-dose, clinical trials, hypersensitivity reactions (including rash, pruritus, and urticaria) were reported with gepirone use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    serotonin syndrome
    General Information
    Concomitant use of gepirone with SSRIs, tricyclic antidepressants, or other serotonergic medications may cause serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition characterized by altered mental status, hypertension, restlessness, myoclonus, hyperthermia, hyperreflexia, diaphoresis, shivering, and tremor. If concomitant use of gepirone with other serotonergic medications is clinically warranted, inform patients of the increased risk for serotonin syndrome and monitor for symptoms. Discontinue gepirone and/or any concomitant serotonergic medications immediately if the above symptoms occur and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    neonatal abstinence syndrome, persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn
    General Information
    Neonates exposed to other serotonergic antidepressants in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding. Complications can arise immediately after delivery. Reported clinical findings have included respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature instability, feeding difficulty, vomiting, hypoglycemia, hypotonia, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, tremors, jitteriness, irritability, and constant crying. These findings are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of SSRIs or possibly a drug discontinuation syndrome and are often described as a neonatal abstinence syndrome. Exposure during late pregnancy to serotonergic antidepressants may have an increased risk for persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN). PPHN occurs in 1 to 2 per 1,000 live births in the general population and is associated with substantial neonatal morbidity and mortality.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal abstinence syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Gepirone is an oral antidepressant agent that is chemically related to buspirone. It appears to modulate serotonergic activity in the CNS through selective agonist activity at 5HT1A receptors. It is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults. The efficacy of gepirone for the treatment of MDD in adults was evaluated in two 8-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, flexible-dose studies. The primary efficacy measure in both trials was the change from baseline in the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-17) total score. In both studies, gepirone use was associated with a statistically significantly greater improvement in HAMD-17 scores at week 8 compared to patients in the placebo group. The most common adverse effects reported in clinical trials included dizziness, nausea, insomnia, abdominal pain, and dyspepsia. Unlike traditional antidepressants, sexual dysfunction was not reported with gepirone use and is likely associated with its unique mechanism of action. Caution is advised when using gepirone in patients with a history of cardiac disease, as gepirone use is associated with QT prolongation. Electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected prior to initiating treatment and an ECG should be performed prior to initiation, during dose titration, and periodically throughout treatment. The efficacy of gepirone in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age with depression was not demonstrated in 2 clinical trials. Gepirone carries the same boxed warning for increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors when used in pediatric and young adult patients as other antidepressant medications and is not approved for use in pediatric patients. The FDA approved gepirone in September 2023.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The mechanism of the antidepressant effect of gepirone is thought to be related to its modulation of serotonergic activity in the CNS through selective agonist activity at 5-HT1A receptors. In clinical research, short-term use of gepirone was associated with a temporary reduction in the firing of 5-HT neurons similar to that seen with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other antidepressant medications, likely due to its agonist effects at 5-HT1A autoreceptors. However, 5-HT1A autoreceptors may become desensitized after long-term treatment with gepirone, leading to a gradual increase in 5-HT release. In addition to its post-synaptic agonist properties, gepirone is believed to produce a gradual increase in neuronal 5-HT activity, giving it a distinct mechanism for increasing serotonergic activity compared to other antidepressant agents.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, the absolute bioavailability of gepirone from the extended-release tablet is 14% to 17%. The maximal plasma gepirone concentration (Cmax) after dosing is attained within 6 hours (Tmax). Administration with food has been noted to have a significant effect on the Cmax of gepirone and, to a lesser extent, on the total exposure to gepirone. The magnitude of the food effect was dependent on the fat content of the meal. After a high fat meal, Tmax was reached at 3 hours. Cmax also increased as fat content of the meal also increased. The effect of varying amounts of fat on Cmax and AUC of the major metabolites 3-OH-gepirone and 1-PP were similar to that found for the parent compound.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In patients with mild (Child-Pugh A) to moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment, the metabolism of gepirone and its major metabolites was decreased and maximum concentrations and exposure (AUC) were increased by approximately 2.5-fold versus normal controls. Based on the pharmacokinetics, gepirone is contraindicated in patients with severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 50 mL/minute), the metabolism and excretion of gepirone and some of its major metabolites were decreased, and the maximum concentrations and exposure (AUC) were increased relative to normal controls.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Geriatric patients (65 to 81 years of age) had higher gepirone exposure (AUC) and maximum concentration (Cmax) values than younger adults (18 to 40 years of age) in pharmacokinetic studies. Thus, maximum recommended doses of gepirone are lower in geriatric patients vs. younger adults.
  Text
  Gepirone is administered orally. The pharmacokinetics of gepirone are linear and dose proportional from 18.2 mg to 72.6 mg per day orally. The steady-state plasma concentration is typically achieved within 2 to 4 days of daily dosing. The apparent volume of distribution is approximately 94.5L. Plasma protein binding in vitro is 72% and is not concentration dependent; the in vitro plasma protein binding for 3'-OH gepirone is 59% and 42% for the 1-PP metabolite. Following oral administration, gepirone is extensively metabolized. CYP3A4 is the primary enzyme catalyzing the metabolism of gepirone to its major pharmacologically active metabolites. Both major metabolites 1-PP and 3'-OH-gepirone are present in plasma in higher concentrations than the parent compound. Mean terminal half-life is approximately 5 hours. Following a single oral dose of [14C]-labeled gepirone, approximately 81% and 13% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in the urine and feces, respectively, as metabolites. Approximately 60% of the gepirone was eliminated in the urine within the first 24 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
CYP3A4 is the primary enzyme catalyzing the metabolism of gepirone to its major pharmacologically active metabolites. Strong inducers and inhibitors of CYP3A4, as evidenced by pharmacokinetic studies, are expected to decrease and increase, respectively, the maximum concentrations and exposure (AUC) of gepirone significantly. Gepirone has not been shown to be an inhibitor or inducer of any CYP450 enzymes and the drug is also unlikely to cause clinically significant inhibition of the following transporters based on in vitro data: P-gp, BCRP, BSEP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, OCT2, MATE1, and MATE2-K. No clinically relevant interactions with drugs metabolized/transported by these CYP450 enzymes or drug transporters would be expected.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Extended-release (ER) tablets:
Swallow ER tablets whole. Do not split, crush, or chew.
Administer with food at approximately the same time each day.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    72.6 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    36.3 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild (Child-Pugh A) hepatic impairment: No dosage adjustment required.
Moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment: Initial dose of 18.2 mg/day PO. Based on clinical response and tolerability, may increase to a maximum recommended dose of 36.3 mg/day after Day 7.
Severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment: Use is contraindicated; do not use.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 50 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment required.
CrCl less than 50 mL/minute: Initial dose of 18.2 mg/day PO; based on clinical response and tolerability, may increase to a maximum dose of 36.3 mg/day after Day 7.
