=== Infigratinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5336)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Dosage not established.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): blepharitis, blurred vision, cataracts, keratitis, lacrimation, retinal detachment, xerophthalmia, calcinosis cutis, calciphylaxis, hypercalcemia, hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, oral ulceration, anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - TRUSELTIQ

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of previously treated, unresectable locally advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with a fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) fusion or other rearrangement†
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          Dosage not established.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of cholangiocarcinoma†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    cataract surgery, myopia, ocular trauma, posterior vitreous detachment, retinal detachment
    General Information
    Use infigratinib with caution in patients with a history of high myopia, posterior vitreous detachment (PVD), ocular trauma, previous cataract surgery, or a personal or family history of retinal detachment as these may increase the risk for retinal detachment. Infigratinib can cause retinal pigment epithelial detachment (RPED) (retinal detachment), which may cause symptoms including blurred vision. The median time to onset of RPED was 26 days. Dry eye symptoms were also commonly reported; treat dry eye with ocular demulcents as needed. Perform a comprehensive ophthalmological examination including optical coherence tomography (OCT) prior to beginning treatment with infigratinib, at 1 month after starting treatment, at 3 months after starting treatment, and then every 3 months thereafter during treatment. If visual symptoms occur, urgently refer patients for an ophthalmologic evaluation, with follow-up every 3 weeks until resolution or discontinuation of infigratinib. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if RPED occurs.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    hyperphosphatemia
    General Information
    Avoid the use of infigratinib in patients with hyperphosphatemia greater than 7.5 mg/dL; however, phosphate binding therapy should be held during the week off of infigratinib therapy each cycle (days 22 to 28) and during any interruptions of therapy for other adverse reactions. Infigratinib can cause hyperphosphatemia leading to soft tissue mineralization, cutaneous calcinosis, non-uremic calciphylaxis and vascular calcification. Monitor phosphate levels throughout treatment and follow dose modification guidelines when required; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hyperphosphatemia occurs.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Pregnancy should be avoided by females of reproductive potential during infigratinib treatment and for at least 1 month after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled studies in pregnant women, infigratinib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. Women who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving infigratinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Administration of infigratinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in increased embryofetal death at 10 mg/kg per day and reductions in fetal body weights at 3 mg/kg per day or more (less than 0.1 times the human exposure at the clinical dose of 125 mg); at 3 mg/kg per day, infigratinib also decreased the mean number of embryos and increased nonviable embryos and postimplantation loss. Fetal abnormalities (external, soft tissue, and skeletal) were increased at doses of 1 mg/kg per day or more (less than 0.1 times the human exposure at the clinical dose of 125 mg). Doses of infigratinib 0.3 mg/kg per day or higher to pregnant rabbits resulted in maternal toxicity and a corresponding reduction in fetal body weights.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Reduce the dose of infigratinib in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min); the dose of infigratinib has not been established for patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min), for those with end-stage renal disease receiving intermittent hemodialysis, or for those with renal failure.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, male-mediated teratogenicity, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during infigratinib treatment. Infigratinib can be teratogenic if taken by the mother during pregnancy. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for at least 1 month after treatment with infigratinib. Females of reproductive potential should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of infigratinib. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, males with female partners of reproductive potential should also use effective contraception during and for at least 1 month after treatment with infigratinib. Women who become pregnant while receiving infigratinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Reduce the dose of infigratinib for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A; Child-Pugh class B; total bilirubin greater than the upper limit of normal [ULN] with AST greater than ULN; or total bilirubin greater than 1.5 to 3 times ULN with any AST). The recommended dose of infigratinib has not been established for patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C; or total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN with any AST) or hepatic failure.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from infigratinib, advise women to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and for 1 month after the final dose. It is not known whether infigratinib is present in human milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Pregnancy should be avoided by females of reproductive potential during infigratinib treatment and for at least 1 month after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled studies in pregnant women, infigratinib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. Women who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving infigratinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Administration of infigratinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in increased embryofetal death at 10 mg/kg per day and reductions in fetal body weights at 3 mg/kg per day or more (less than 0.1 times the human exposure at the clinical dose of 125 mg); at 3 mg/kg per day, infigratinib also decreased the mean number of embryos and increased nonviable embryos and postimplantation loss. Fetal abnormalities (external, soft tissue, and skeletal) were increased at doses of 1 mg/kg per day or more (less than 0.1 times the human exposure at the clinical dose of 125 mg). Doses of infigratinib 0.3 mg/kg per day or higher to pregnant rabbits resulted in maternal toxicity and a corresponding reduction in fetal body weights.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from infigratinib, advise women to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and for 1 month after the final dose. It is not known whether infigratinib is present in human milk.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and adagrasib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of infigratinib by 622%.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after an antacid.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after an antacid.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after an antacid.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after an antacid.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after an antacid.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Antacids: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after an antacid.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and aprepitant/fosaprepitant. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and aprepitant and fosaprepitant are moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and atazanavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and atazanavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and cobicistat. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and avacopan. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and berotralstat. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and bexarotene. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and lenacapavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and bosentan. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids such as calcium carbonate if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after calcium carbonate.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and H2-receptor antagonists if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist. (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids such as calcium carbonate if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after calcium carbonate.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids such as calcium carbonate if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after calcium carbonate.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids such as calcium carbonate if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after calcium carbonate.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids such as calcium carbonate if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after calcium carbonate.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids such as calcium carbonate if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after calcium carbonate.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and carbamazepine. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and cenobamate. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ceritinib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and chloramphenicol. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and H2-receptor antagonists if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ciprofloxacin. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and cobicistat. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and conivaptan. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and crizotinib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and cyclosporine. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and dabrafenib. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and darunavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and cobicistat. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and darunavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and cobicistat. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and darunavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and diltiazem. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and dronedarone. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and duvelisib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and efavirenz. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and efavirenz. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and efavirenz. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and elagolix. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and elagolix. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and cobicistat. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and cobicistat. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and encorafenib. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the overall exposure of infigratinib by 56%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of infigratinib by 622%.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and enzalutamide. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and erythromycin. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and eslicarbazepine. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and etravirine. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Famotidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and H2-receptor antagonists if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and fedratinib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and fexinidazole. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and fluconazole. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and fluvoxamine. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and fosamprenavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin and fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during infigratinib treatment due to the risk for increased infigratinib exposure and adverse reactions. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
H2-blockers: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and H2-receptor antagonists if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and H2-receptor antagonists if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and idelalisib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and imatinib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and isavuconazonium. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and itraconazole. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and lefamulin. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and lenacapavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and letermovir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and lonafarnib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ritonavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and lorlatinib. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and combination lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and combination lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and combination lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and combination lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after an antacid.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after an antacid.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and mifepristone. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and mitotane. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and nafcillin. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and nefazodone. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and nelfinavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and netupitant. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and nilotinib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ritonavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and nirogacestat. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nizatidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and H2-receptor antagonists if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%. (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and rifabutin. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and pacritinib. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Pantoprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and pexidartinib. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin and fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and posaconazole. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
RABEprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and relacorilant. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of infigratinib by 622%.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and repotrectinib. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ribociclib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate inhibitor at doses of 400 mg/day. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ribociclib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate inhibitor at doses of 400 mg/day. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and rifabutin. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and rifampin. Coadministration decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56% which may decrease infigratinib efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and rifapentine. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ritonavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and saquinavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and sotorasib. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and St. John's Wort. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and tipranavir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and verapamil. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and tucatinib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and verapamil. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of infigratinib reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of infigratinib reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of infigratinib reducing its efficacy.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and voriconazole. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and voxelotor. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
    Headline
    blepharitis, blurred vision, cataracts, keratitis, lacrimation, retinal detachment, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Retinal pigment epithelial detachment (RPED) (retinal detachment) occurred in 11% of patients who received infigratinib across clinical trials where ophthalmologic monitoring did not routinely include optical coherence tomography (OCT), including patients with asymptomatic RPED (n = 351); symptoms of RPED include blurred vision. The median time to onset of RPED was 26 days. Perform a comprehensive ophthalmological examination including optical coherence tomography (OCT) prior to beginning treatment with infigratinib, at 1 month after starting treatment, at 3 months after starting treatment, and then every 3 months thereafter during treatment. If visual symptoms occur, urgently refer patients for an ophthalmologic evaluation, with follow-up every 3 weeks until resolution or discontinuation of infigratinib. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if RPED occurs. Xerophthalmia occurred in 29% to 44% of patients treated with infigratinib, including keratitis, increased lacrimation, pinguecula, and punctate keratitis; treat with ocular demulcents as needed. Eyelash changes occurred in 25% of patients treated with infigratinib in a multicenter, single-arm trial which included 108 patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma, including blepharitis, eyelash changes, eyelash discoloration, eyelash growth, trichiasis, and trichomegaly. Additionally, blurred vision was reported in 21% and cataracts in 12% of this subset of patients; at least 1% of patients in this trial discontinued therapy due to subretinal fluid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blepharitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      keratitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      lacrimation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      retinal detachment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cataracts
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    calcinosis cutis, calciphylaxis, hypercalcemia, hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Hyperphosphatemia occurred in 82% of patients treated with infigratinib across clinical trials, based on laboratory values above the upper limit of normal; 83% of patients received phosphate binders. Hyperphosphatemia occurs as a pharmacodynamic effect of therapy due to FGFR inhibition, with serum phosphate increasing with increasing infigratinib exposures across the dose range of 20 mg to 150 mg once daily. The median time to onset of hyperphosphatemia was 8 days. Hyperphosphatemia can lead to soft tissue mineralization, calcinosis cutis, non-uremic calciphylaxis, vascular calcification, and myocardial calcification. The median time to onset of hyperphosphatemia was 8 days after initiation of therapy. Monitor for hyperphosphatemia throughout treatment and initiate phosphate-lowering therapy when serum phosphate concentrations are greater than 5.5 mg/dL; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary based on the duration and severity of hyperphosphatemia. Phosphate binding therapy should be held during the week off of infigratinib therapy each cycle (days 22 to 28) and during any interruptions of therapy for other adverse reactions. Increased phosphate concentrations occurred in 90% (grade 3 or 4, 13%) and decreased phosphate concentrations (hypophosphatemia) in 64% (grade 3 or 4, 31%) of patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial. At least 1% of patients in this study permanently discontinued therapy due to calcinosis. Additional electrolyte abnormalities reported in the subset of patients with cholangiocarcinoma included increased calcium (hypercalcemia) (43%; grade 3 or 4, 7%), decreased sodium (hyponatremia) (41%; grade 3 or 4, 20%), decreased potassium (hypokalemia) (21%; grade 3 or 4, 3%), increased potassium (hyperkalemia) (17%; grade 3 or 4, 3%), and decreased calcium (hypocalcemia) (10%; grade 3 or 4, 2%); increased creatinine also occurred in 93% (grade 3 or 4, 7%) of these patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      calcinosis cutis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      calciphylaxis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperphosphatemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypercalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    alopecia, onycholysis, Onychomadesis, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), xerosis
    General Information
    Nail toxicity occurred in 57% (grade 3, 2%) of patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial including ingrown nails, nailbed bleeding, nailbed inflammation, nailbed tenderness or discoloration, nail dystrophy or hypertrophy, nail ridging, onychalgia, onychoclasis, onycholysis, onychomadesis, onychomycosis, and paronychia. Alopecia occurred in 38%, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) in 33% (grade 3, 7%), and xerosis in 23% of cholangiocarcinoma patients in this trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      onycholysis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Onychomadesis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, oral ulceration, stomatitis, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reaction reported in patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial included stomatitis (including oral ulceration) (56%; grade 3, 15%), constipation (30%; grade 3, 1%), abdominal pain (26%; grade 3, 5%), xerostomia (25%), diarrhea (24%; grade 3, 3%), vomiting (21%; grade 3, 1%), nausea (19%; grade 3, 1%), and dyspepsia (17%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue (including asthenia) occurred in 44% (grade 3, 4%) of patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Edema (including peripheral edema) occurred in 17% (grade 3, 1%) of patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia
    General Information
    Arthralgia (32%) and extremity pain (17%; grade 3, 2%) were reported in patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysgeusia, headache
    General Information
    Dysgeusia (32%) and headache (17%; grade 3, 1%) were reported in patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, weight loss
    General Information
    Anorexia (22%; grade 3, 1%) and weight loss (15%; grade 3, 2%) were reported in patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    epistaxis
    General Information
    Epistaxis occurred in 18% of patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bone fractures
    General Information
    Bone fractures occurred in 1% of patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bone fractures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever, infection
    General Information
    Fever occurred in 15% (grade 3, 1%) of patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial; infection and sepsis were each reported in at least 2% of this subset of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic abnormalities reported in patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial included decreased hemoglobin (anemia) (53%; grade 3 or 4, 5%), decreased lymphocytes (lymphopenia) (43%; grade 3 or 4, 9%), decreased platelets (thrombocytopenia) (37%; grade 3 or 4, 4%), decreased leukocytes (leukopenia) (26%; grade 3 or 4, 3%), and decreased neutrophils (neutropenia) (14%; grade 3 or 4, 2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Increased bilirubin (hyperbilirubinemia) (24%; grade 3 or 4, 6%) and elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (51%; grade 3 or 4, 6%) and increased AST (38%; grade 3 or 4, 4%) occurred in patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial; increased alkaline phosphatase also occurred in 54% (grade 3 or 4, 8%) of this subset of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hyperuricemia
    General Information
    Increased urate concentrations (hyperuricemia) (grade 3 or 4, 37%) and increased lipase (44%; grade 3 or 4, 7%) occurred in patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Increased triglycerides (hypertriglyceridemia) (38%; grade 3 or 4, 3%) and increased cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia) (18%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) occurred in patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Decreased albumin concentrations (hypoalbuminemia) occurred in 24% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients with previously treated advanced cholangiocarcinoma treated with infigratinib (n = 108) in a multicenter, single-arm trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Infigratinib is a fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) inhibitor. It was voluntarily withdrawn from the market by the manufacturer in March 2023 after initial accelerated approval; a reason for withdrawal was not provided.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Infigratinib is a small molecule kinase inhibitor of fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) with IC50 values of 1.1, 1, 2, and 61 nanomolar for FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, and FGFR4, respectively. The major human metabolites, BHS697 and CQM157, have similar in vitro binding affinities for FGFR1, FGFR2, and FGFR3 compared to infigratinib. Constitutive FGFR signaling can support the proliferation and survival of malignant cells. Infigratinib inhibited FGFR signaling and decreased cell proliferation in cancer cell lines with activating FGFR amplifications, mutations, or fusions. Infigratinib had anti-tumor activity in mouse and rat xenograft models of human tumors with activating FGFR2 or FGFR3 alterations, including two patient-derived xenograft models of cholangiocarcinoma that expressed FGFR2-TTC28 or FGFR2-TRA2B fusions. Infigratinib demonstrated brain-to-plasma concentration ratios (based on AUC) of 0.682 in rats after a single oral dose.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The mean Cmax of infigratinib, BHS697, and CQM157 at steady-state was 282.5 ng/mL (CV, 54%), 42.1 ng/mL (CV, 65%), and 15.7 ng/mL (CV, 92%), respectively. The mean AUC of infigratinib, BHS697, and CQM157 at steady-state was 3,780 ng x hour/mL (CV, 59%), 717 ng x hour/mL (CV, 55%), and 428 ng x hour/mL (CV, 72%). The median time to achieve peak plasma concentrations (Tmax) was 6 hours at steady-state (range, 2 to 7 hours). The Cmax of infigratinib in healthy subjects increased by 60% to 80% and the AUC increased by 80% to 120% following administration with a high-fat and high-calorie meal (800 to 1,000 calories with approximately 50% of caloric content from fat); the median Tmax increased from 4 hours to 6 hours. After administration with a low-fat, low-calorie meal (about 330 calories with 20% of the total caloric content from fat), the mean Cmax of infigratinib increased by 90% and the mean AUC increased by 70%; the median Tmax did not change.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The relative potency-adjusted steady-state AUC of infigratinib and its active metabolites in plasma increased by 47% to 62% in patients with mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than the upper limit of normal [ULN] to 1.5 times ULN; or AST greater than ULN) and by 99% in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin 1.6 to 3 times ULN with any AST) relative to patients with normal hepatic function (total bilirubin and AST at ULN or less). The effect of severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN with any AST) on infigratinib exposure is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The relative potency-adjusted steady-state AUC of infigratinib and its active metabolites in plasma increased by 32% in patients with mild renal impairment (CrCl 60 to 89 mL/min) and by 37% in patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 59 mL/min) relative to patients with normal renal function (CrCl 90 mL/mini or higher). The effect of severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) or renal dialysis in end-stage renal disease on infigratinib exposure is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (19 to 86 years) did not have a clinically significant effect on the systemic exposure of infigratinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex did not have a clinically significant effect on the systemic exposure of infigratinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race/ethnicity (White, 70.7%; Black, 15.4%; Asian, 8%) did not have a clinically significant effect on the systemic exposure of infigratinib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (36.4 kg to 169 kg) did not have a clinically significant effect on the systemic exposure of infigratinib.
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Infigratinib is administered orally. It is 96.8% protein bound, primarily to lipoprotein, and was dependent of drug concentration. The geometric mean apparent volume of distribution was 1,600 liters (CV, 33%) at steady-state. At steady-state, the geometric mean total apparent clearance of infigratinib was 33.1 liters/hour (CV, 59%) and the geometric mean terminal half-life was 33.5 hours (CV, 39%). After a single radiolabeled dose in healthy subjects, approximately 77% of the dose was recovered in feces (3.4% as unchanged drug) and 7.2% in urine (1.9% as unchanged drug).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A
Infigratinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 (approximately 94%) and to a lesser extent by FMO3 (6%) in vitro. Infigratinib is the major drug-related moiety in plasma (38% of the dose), followed by 2 active metabolites that are each at greater than 10% of the dose (BHS697 and CQM157). BHS697 is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; CQM157 is metabolized through both Phase I and Phase II biotransformation pathways. BHS697 contributes approximately 16% to 33% of the overall pharmacologic activity of infigratinib, and CQM157 contributes about 9% to 12%. In vitro, infigratinib is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP; it also inhibits MATE1 and BCRP in vitro.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer infigratinib on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after food.
Advise patients to swallow capsules whole with a glass of water; do not crush, chew, or dissolve capsules.
If a dose is missed by 4 or more hours, do not make up the missed dose; if vomiting occurs, do not repeat the dose. Administer the next dose as scheduled.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Dosage not established.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Dosage not established.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Dosage not established.
  Renal Impairment
  Dosage not established.
