=== metyraPONE (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1453)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Metyrapone is an oral diagnostic agent that inhibits steroidogenesis.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: For HPA suppression diagnosis, 3 g PO as a single dose or 4.5 g PO total dose for 24-hour regimen.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, drowsiness, headache, acne vulgaris, arthralgia, atopic dermatitis, edema, fatigue, hirsutism, hypertension, lethargy, rash, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Metyrapone is contraindicated for use in patients with a known metyrapone hypersensitivity or hypersensitivity to any of the formulation components. Metyrapone is contraindicated in patients with adrenal insufficiency.

Brand Names
  - Metopirone

Dosage Forms
  - Metopirone 250mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        30 mg/kg/dose (Max: 3 g/dose) PO as a single dose at midnight (12 AM). The blood sample for ACTH and 11-desoxycortisol is taken early the following morning (7:30 to 8:00 AM). After the blood sample has been taken, a prophylactic dose of glucocorticoid may be considered for persons at high risk for adrenal insufficiency. An intact ACTH axis function is generally indicated by an increase in 11-desoxycortisol to more than 70 mcg/L.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        30 mg/kg/dose (Max: 3 g/dose) PO as a single dose at midnight (12 AM). The blood sample for ACTH and 11-desoxycortisol is taken early the following morning (7:30 to 8:00 AM). After the blood sample has been taken, a prophylactic dose of glucocorticoid may be considered for persons at high risk for adrenal insufficiency. An intact ACTH axis function is generally indicated by an increase in 11-desoxycortisol to more than 70 mcg/L.
    Heading
    For hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) suppression diagnosis
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        500 mg to 6 grams/day PO, divided into 3 to 4 doses, is the recommended daily dosage range per treatment guidelines. In retrospective studies, urinary-free cortisol (UFC) normalization was approximately 70% with metyrapone. In a prospective study UFC normalization was 47% at week 12 with a median dosage of 1500 mg/day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of Cushing syndrome†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Metyrapone is contraindicated for use in patients with a known metyrapone hypersensitivity or hypersensitivity to any of the formulation components.
 
Metyrapone is contraindicated in patients with adrenal insufficiency. Furthermore, in patients with reduced adrenal secretory capacity, metyrapone may cause acute adrenal insufficiency. Therefore, prior to the administration of metyrapone, adrenal function should be assessed via an ACTH test. A normal response to the ACTH test should be demonstrated prior to giving the metyrapone test.
 
Patients with hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism may have an impaired response to the metyrapone diagnostic test.
 
Metyrapone has been reported to cause dizziness and sedation; thus, patients should utilize caution when driving or operating machinery.
 
Since elderly patients are more likely to have multiple disease states including hepatic impairment, renal impairment and/or decreased cardiac function, caution should be utilized when metyrapone is used in this patient population. Adequate numbers of patients >= 65 years of age were not included in clinical studies to determine whether there is a difference in response between elderly and younger patients.
 
Metyrapone is classified in FDA pregnancy risk category C. Pregnant women may have a reduced response to the metyrapone test. When metyrapone is administered to pregnant women in their second or third trimester, the fetal pituitary gland has been found to respond to the reduction in cortisol and corticosterone production induced by metyrapone. Use during pregnancy only when the benefit outweighs the potential for fetal risk.
 
Studies to evaluate the safety of metyrapone use during breast-feeding and to determine whether it is excreted into breast milk have not been performed. Use with caution during breast feeding.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    adrenal insufficiency, pituitary insufficiency
    General Information
    Metyrapone is contraindicated in individuals with adrenal insufficiency. Metyrapone may induce acute adrenal insufficiency in individuals with reduced adrenal secretory capacity or global pituitary insufficiency. Before administering metyrapone, assess the ability of the adrenals to respond to exogenous adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). If adrenocortical or anterior pituitary function is more severely compromised than indicated by the results of the test, metyrapone may trigger adrenal insufficiency. This can be corrected by administering appropriate doses of corticosteroids.
    Headline
    hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism
    General Information
    In the presence of hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, response to metyrapone may be subnormal.
    Headline
    hepatic cirrhosis
    General Information
    Individuals with hepatic cirrhosis may have impaired response to metyrapone.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Because metyrapone may cause dizziness and sedation, advise individuals to avoid driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration until these effects have passed.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from case reports on the use of metyrapone during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriage. Metyrapone crosses the placenta and may reduce fetal cortisol production. When the metyrapone test has been administered during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy, fetal pituitary responsiveness to enzymatic blockade has been observed. Limited case reports describe low cortisol concentrations at birth after chronic in utero exposure to metyrapone. Animal reproduction studies with metyrapone have not been conducted. No medications for Cushing syndrome are specifically approved for use during pregnancy. Based on low-quality evidence, treatment guidelines suggest that cabergoline or metyrapone may be considered in individuals who are pregnant or planning pregnancy.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use metyrapone with caution during breast-feeding. Metyrapone and its active metabolite, metyrapol, are present in human milk. Limited evidence suggests that milk concentrations are low and are unlikely to adversely affect a breastfed child. Exposure may be substantially reduced by avoiding breast-feeding for 2 to 2.5 hours after each dose. In a single case report, steady-state average milk concentrations in a patient receiving metyrapone 1,000 mg/day were 11 mcg/L for metyrapone and 48.5 mcg/L for metyrapol. The estimated infant dose for an exclusively breastfed infant was 0.1% of the weight-adjusted maternal dose. Peak milk concentrations of metyrapone and metyrapol occurred approximately 1.25 hours after dosing and declined by 75% by 2.25 hours post dose. Estimated milk half-lives were 3.63 hours for metyrapone and 34 hours for metyrapol.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from case reports on the use of metyrapone during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriage. Metyrapone crosses the placenta and may reduce fetal cortisol production. When the metyrapone test has been administered during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy, fetal pituitary responsiveness to enzymatic blockade has been observed. Limited case reports describe low cortisol concentrations at birth after chronic in utero exposure to metyrapone. Animal reproduction studies with metyrapone have not been conducted. No medications for Cushing syndrome are specifically approved for use during pregnancy. Based on low-quality evidence, treatment guidelines suggest that cabergoline or metyrapone may be considered in individuals who are pregnant or planning pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use metyrapone with caution during breast-feeding. Metyrapone and its active metabolite, metyrapol, are present in human milk. Limited evidence suggests that milk concentrations are low and are unlikely to adversely affect a breastfed child. Exposure may be substantially reduced by avoiding breast-feeding for 2 to 2.5 hours after each dose. In a single case report, steady-state average milk concentrations in a patient receiving metyrapone 1,000 mg/day were 11 mcg/L for metyrapone and 48.5 mcg/L for metyrapol. The estimated infant dose for an exclusively breastfed infant was 0.1% of the weight-adjusted maternal dose. Peak milk concentrations of metyrapone and metyrapol occurred approximately 1.25 hours after dosing and declined by 75% by 2.25 hours post dose. Estimated milk half-lives were 3.63 hours for metyrapone and 34 hours for metyrapol.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Acetaminophen: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of nasal corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Alclometasone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as carisoprodol, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with metyrapone can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects, such as drowsiness or dizziness.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Beclomethasone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Betamethasone: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Budesonide: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of nasal corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of nasal corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of nasal corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as carisoprodol, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Clobetasol: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Cortisone: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Deflazacort: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Desonide: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Desoximetasone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
dexAMETHasone: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of ocular, inhaled and topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Diflorasone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with metyrapone can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects, such as drowsiness or dizziness.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause drowsiness or dizziness. Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with metyrapone is necessary, and monitor for additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness or dizziness.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as droperidol, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) In patients taking antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified. (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Esterified Estrogens: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Estradiol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Estrogens: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as eszopiclone, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Exenatide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Fludrocortisone: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test.
Flunisolide: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of nasal or inhaled corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Fluocinolone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Fluocinolone; Hydroquinone; Tretinoin: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Fluocinonide: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Flurandrenolide: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Fluticasone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of nasal and topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Fosphenytoin may increase the metabolism of metyrapone. Inaccurate results may be obtained if fosphenytoin is taken within 2 weeks prior to the metyrapone test.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as haloperidol, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Hydrocortisone: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Insulins: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) In patients taking antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified. (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as methocarbamol, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
methylPREDNISolone: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Miglitol: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Mitotane: (Major) Mitotane suppresses the activity of the adrenal cortex, and may reduce the adrenal response to metyrapone. The manufacturer of metyrapone recommends that any drug that affects adrenal function be discontinued prior to and during metyrapone testing.
Molindone: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as molindone, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Mometasone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of nasal and topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Neomycin; Fluocinolone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of nasal and topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) The metabolism of metyrapone is accelerated by phenytoin; therefore, results of the diagnostic test using metapyrone may be inaccurate in patients taking phenytoin within 2 weeks before. During use for Cushing's syndrome, phenytoin therapy may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated. Metapyrone may cause dizziness or drowsiness, which may be additive to phenytoin effects.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as pimozide, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as pramipexole, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Prednicarbate: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
prednisoLONE: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of ocular or topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
predniSONE: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test.
Primidone: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as ropinirole, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) A subtherapeutic response to metyrapone can be seen in patients on estrogen therapy. When metapyrone is used as a diagnostic drug for testing hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function, the effect of estrogen may need to be considered, or, another diagnostic test chosen. If possible, consider discontinuing the use of estrogen prior to and during testing. During use for Cushing's syndrome, estrogen therapy may increase cortisol levels, which may attenuate the response to metyrapone treatment. Monitor for evidence of clinical response to treatment, and adjust treatment as clinically indicated.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as suvorexant, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
traZODone: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as trazodone, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Triamcinolone: (Contraindicated) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as phenothiazines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as tricyclic antidepressants, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as zolpidem, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Metyrapone has been reported to cause nausea/vomiting, abdominal pain/discomfort, headache, dizziness, drowsiness, and allergic reactions, although the frequency of these reactions is unknown. In addition, bone marrow suppression and leukopenia have been rarely reported with metyrapone use.Acne vulgaris, ataxia, edema, hirsutism, hypertension, lethargy, and rash (unspecified) have been reported with use of metyrapone in the treatment of Cushing's syndrome. The incidence of adverse reactions has been found to be dose-dependent. A decrease in dose from 3 g/day to 2 g/day corresponded with a reduction in side effect frequency from 90% to 33%. In patients with reduced adrenal secretory capacity, metyrapone may cause acute adrenal insufficiency. Symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency include cardiac arrhythmias, hypotension, dehydration, anxiety, confusion, weakness, impaired consciousness, hyponatremia, hypochloremia, and hypokalemia. In patients that experience acute adrenal insufficiency, a large dose of hydrocortisone should be administered, along with both saline and dextrose infusions.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Metyrapone has been reported to cause gastrointestinal (GI) disturbances such as nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain or discomfort. Nausea is a fairly common side effect reported by patients treated with the drug for Cushing's syndrome. It may also cause acute adrenal insufficiency in patients with reduced adrenal secretory capacity, and nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain may occur in patients with adrenal insufficiency. Carefully evaluate any patient with GI symptoms to identify or rule out adrenal insufficiency.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    dizziness, drowsiness, headache
    General Information
    Central nervous system effects reported with metyrapone use include headache, dizziness, and drowsiness or sedation. Dizziness is a commonly reported side effect by patients treated with the drug for Cushing's syndrome.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, arthralgia, atopic dermatitis, edema, fatigue, hirsutism, hypertension, lethargy, rash
    General Information
    Hirsutism, acne vulgaris, edema, hypertension, fatigue, lethargy, arthralgia are other side effects that have been reported with use of metyrapone in the treatment of Cushing's syndrome during clinical studies. Reports of allergic rash or atopic dermatitis have also occurred. A decrease in dose from 3 grams/day to 2 grams/day corresponded with a reduction in the frequency of some side effects in some studies. Guidelines note that androgenic side effects can limit prolonged metyrapone treatment for Cushing's syndrome in female patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hirsutism
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      atopic dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Anemia, leukopenia, and/or thrombocytopenia have been reported with metyrapone use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    adrenocortical insufficiency, hypotension
    General Information
    Hypotension has been reported with metyrapone use. Carefully evaluate any patient with hypotension to identify or rule out adrenal insufficiency. In patients with reduced adrenal secretory capacity, metyrapone may cause acute adrenocortical insufficiency and hypotension. Other symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency include cardiac arrhythmias, dehydration, nausea, vomiting, epigastric pain, diarrhea, anxiety, confusion, weakness, impaired consciousness, hyponatremia, hypochloremia, and hyperkalemia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      adrenocortical insufficiency
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    A laboratory test interference or interaction may occur between metyrapone and other medications used concurrently. Anticonvulsants, psychotropic drugs, hormone preparations, corticosteroids, antithyroid agents and cyproheptadine may affect the results of the metyrapone test.  If these drugs cannot be withdrawn, the necessity of carrying out the metyrapone test should be reviewed.

Description
  Text
  Metyrapone is an oral diagnostic agent that inhibits steroidogenesis. Specifically, metyrapone works by inhibiting endogenous adrenal corticosteroid synthesis, thus decreasing the production of cortisol and corticosterone. Metyrapone is utilized to evaluate hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function; the two regimens approved for use are a single-dose overnight regimen and a multiple dose regimen administered over 24 hours. In children with asthma receiving inhaled corticosteroids, it has been suggested that the overnight metyrapone test will detect abnormalities in adrenal function more often than other tests. Metyrapone is also used off-label in the treatment of Cushing's syndrome and is one of the preferred medications for use in patients with mild disease and no visible tumor on MRI. Guidelines also strongly recommend metyrapone in patients who require rapid normalization of cortisol as response is typically seen within hours. Treatment with metyrapone also results in general improvement of the clinical symptoms of Cushing's syndrome, such as blood pressure, glucose metabolism, and muscle weakness.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mechanism of Action: Under normal conditions, corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) are released from the hypothalamus. CRH stimulates the pituitary to release adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), which then stimulates the adrenal gland to increase production and release cortisol. Cortisol, via negative feedback, suppresses the release of ACTH.Metyrapone inhibits the 11-beta-hydroxylase enzyme, which is responsible for the conversion of 11-desoxycortisol and 11-desoxycorticosterone to cortisol and corticosterone, respectively. Secondary to inhibition of 11-beta-hydroxylase, plasma levels of cortisol (a suppressor of ACTH release) decrease while levels of 11-desoxycortisol and 11-desoxycorticosterone increase. Both 11-desoxycortisol and 11-desoxycorticosterone weakly suppress the release of ACTH; thus, ACTH levels increase following the administration of metyrapone. There is also an increase in the urinary excretion of 17-hydroxycorticosteroids and 17-ketogenic steroids, metabolites of 11-desoxycortisol and 11-desoxycorticosterone. Following administration of metyrapone, plasma levels of 11-desoxycortisol and ACTH or urinary concentrations of 17-hydroxycorticosteroids are measured to evaluate the hypothalamic-pituitary ACTH function. Metyrapone is also believed to cause mild natriuresis through the inhibition of the synthesis of aldosterone.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Metyrapone has a rapid onset with peak plasma concentrations reached 1 hour after oral administration. The peak plasma concentration is 3.7 mcg/ml and 7.3 mcg/ml following administration of 750 mg and 2000 mg of metyrapone, respectively. The plasma ratio of metyrapone to metyrapol is 1:15 at 8 hours after oral administration.
  Text
  Metyrapone is administered orally. It is metabolized to metyrapol, an active alcohol metabolite. Both metyrapone and metyrapol undergo conjugation with glucuronide. The elimination half-life of metyrapone is 1.9 +/- 0.7 hours while metyrapol takes twice as long to be eliminated. Within 72 hours after the administration of the first 4.5 g dose, administered as 750 mg every 4 hours, an average of 5.3% is excreted in the urine as metyrapone (9.2% as free drug and 90.8% as glucuronide) and 38.5% as metyrapol (8.1% as free metyrapol and 91.9% as glucuronide).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: Unknown

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer with milk, yogurt, or a snack.
Usually given on an outpatient basis; however, if adrenal insufficiency is suspected, hospitalization is recommended.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    For HPA suppression diagnosis, 3 g PO as a single dose or 4.5 g PO total dose for 24-hour regimen.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    For HPA suppression diagnosis, 3 g PO as a single dose or 4.5 g PO total dose for 24-hour regimen.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    For HPA suppression diagnosis, 3 g PO as a single dose or 4.5 g PO total dose for 24-hour regimen.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    For HPA suppression diagnosis, 15 mg/kg or 3 g PO as a single dose or 15 mg/kg/dose or 4.5 g PO total dose for 24-hour regimen.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
