=== Mitapivat (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5388)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Mitapivat is an oral pyruvate kinase activator indicated for the treatment of anemia of alpha or beta thalassemia and for the treatment of hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase deficiency.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 200 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): back pain, flank pain, musculoskeletal pain, atrial fibrillation, hypertension, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (svt), elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, jaundice

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity Avoid mitapivat use for anemia of alpha or beta thalassemia in individuals...

Brand Names
  - Aqvesme
  - PYRUKYND

Dosage Forms
  - Aqvesme 100mg Tablet
  - Pyrukynd 20mg and 5mg Tablet Taper Pack
  - Pyrukynd 20mg Tablet
  - Pyrukynd 50mg and 20mg Tablet Taper Pack
  - Pyrukynd 50mg Tablet
  - Pyrukynd 5mg Tablet
  - Pyrukynd 5mg Tablet Taper Pack

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg PO twice daily, initially. Increase the dose to 20 mg PO twice daily and then to 50 mg PO twice daily at 4-week intervals if hemoglobin (Hb) remains below normal or transfusion has been required within the previous 8 weeks. Maintain the current dose if Hb is within the normal range and no transfusion has been required within the previous 8 weeks. If Hb subsequently decreases, consider up-titration to the maximum of 50 mg PO twice daily according to the same schedule. Max: 100 mg/day. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase deficiency
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue treatment if no benefit in hemolytic anemia has been observed, based on the totality of laboratory results and clinical status, unless there is another explanation for response failure (e.g., bleeding, surgery, other concomitant illnesses). If interruption or discontinuation of treatment is needed, a dose taper is not necessary. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of anemia of beta thalassemia or alpha thalassemia

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Avoid mitapivat use for anemia of alpha or beta thalassemia in individuals with hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, or Child-Pugh class C) due to an increased risk of severe outcomes if hepatotoxicity occurs, and avoid mitapivat use for hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase deficiency in individuals with moderate or severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. In individuals with hepatic cirrhosis Child-Pugh class B and C or moderate and severe hepatic impairment, there is a potential increase in mitapivat exposure. When using mitapivat for the treatment of anemia of alpha or beta thalassemia, obtain liver function tests, including alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin with fractionation, at baseline, every 4 weeks for 24 weeks, and then as clinically indicated. When using mitapivat for the treatment of hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase deficiency, obtain liver function tests at baseline, monthly for 6 months, and then as clinically indicated.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Data from mitapivat clinical trials are insufficient to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes during pregnancy. Mitapivat was not teratogenic in pregnant rats and rabbits at exposures up to 9.9 and 2.4 times, respectively, the human exposure associated with the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 100 mg twice daily during organogenesis. Adverse developmental effects were not observed when mitapivat was given to rats at doses up to 9.9 times the MRHD during organogenesis through lactation. Untreated hemolytic anemia in pregnant people may precipitate acute hemolysis, preterm labor, miscarriage, and severe anemia requiring frequent transfusion. Complications of frequent transfusion include cardiac dysrhythmia, right ventricular dysfunction, heart failure, thrombosis, and iron overload. Additionally, preeclampsia and severe hypertension have been reported in pregnant patients with untreated pyruvate kinase deficiency.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use mitapivat with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of mitapivat in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Data from mitapivat clinical trials are insufficient to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes during pregnancy. Mitapivat was not teratogenic in pregnant rats and rabbits at exposures up to 9.9 and 2.4 times, respectively, the human exposure associated with the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 100 mg twice daily during organogenesis. Adverse developmental effects were not observed when mitapivat was given to rats at doses up to 9.9 times the MRHD during organogenesis through lactation. Untreated hemolytic anemia in pregnant people may precipitate acute hemolysis, preterm labor, miscarriage, and severe anemia requiring frequent transfusion. Complications of frequent transfusion include cardiac dysrhythmia, right ventricular dysfunction, heart failure, thrombosis, and iron overload. Additionally, preeclampsia and severe hypertension have been reported in pregnant patients with untreated pyruvate kinase deficiency.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use mitapivat with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of mitapivat in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying condition.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with mitapivat. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acoramidis: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and mitapivat due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and mitapivat is a UGT inducer.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with adagrasib due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of mitapivat and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of mitapivat. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a weak CYP3A inducer like mitapivat with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with clarithromycin due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with apalutamide due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with aprepitant/fosaprepitant and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with atazanavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with atazanavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with cobicistat due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with mitapivat is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with avacopan and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with mitapivat is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with berotralstat and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in bexagliflozin efficacy during concomitant use of bexagliflozin and mitapivat and adjust therapy as appropriate. Concomitant use may decrease bexagliflozin exposure. Bexagliflozin is a UGT substrate and mitapivat is a UGT inducer.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with bexarotene, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with lenacapavir and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with bosentan, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of mitapivat as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; mitapivat is a weak CYP2B6 inducer.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of mitapivat as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; mitapivat is a weak CYP2B6 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cabotegravir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cabotegravir and mitapivat is contraindicated due to the potential for significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cabotegravir, which may result in potential loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Cabotegravir is a substrate for UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 and mitapivat is a UGT inducer. Coadministration with another UGT inducer decreased cabotegravir exposure by 59%.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cabotegravir and mitapivat is contraindicated due to the potential for significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cabotegravir, which may result in potential loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Cabotegravir is a substrate for UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 and mitapivat is a UGT inducer. Coadministration with another UGT inducer decreased cabotegravir exposure by 59%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with carbamazepine due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat and carbamazepine concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and inducer and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and mitapivat. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with cenobamate, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ceritinib due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with chloramphenicol due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with ciprofloxacin and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3Ainhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with clarithromycin due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clozapine effectiveness if coadministered with mitapivat. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When mitapivat is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Mitapivat is a weak inducer of CYP3A, one of the isoenzymes responsible for the metabolism of clozapine.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with cobicistat due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-glycoprotein substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mitapivat can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and mitapivat due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with conivaptan and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with crizotinib and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with cyclosporine and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions. Closely monitor cyclosporine concentrations and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations and may have an unpredictable effect on cyclosporine. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and weak inducer and P-gp inhibitor and cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inhibitor and P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with dabrafenib, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with darunavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with cobicistat due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with darunavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with cobicistat due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with darunavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of mitapivat as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; mitapivat is a weak CYP2B6 inducer.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing mitapivat. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with diltiazem and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with mitapivat. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with mitapivat. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with mitapivat. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mitapivat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mitapivat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mitapivat may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mitapivat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with dronedarone and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with duvelisib and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with mitapivat. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of mitapivat. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of mitapivat; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with efavirenz if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Efavirenz decreased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by approximately 60% and 30%, respectively, after mitapivat 5 or 20 mg twice daily. Efavirenz decreased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by 55% and 24%, respectively, after mitapivat 50 mg twice daily.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with efavirenz if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Efavirenz decreased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by approximately 60% and 30%, respectively, after mitapivat 5 or 20 mg twice daily. Efavirenz decreased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by 55% and 24%, respectively, after mitapivat 50 mg twice daily. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mitapivat may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with efavirenz if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Efavirenz decreased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by approximately 60% and 30%, respectively, after mitapivat 5 or 20 mg twice daily. Efavirenz decreased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by 55% and 24%, respectively, after mitapivat 50 mg twice daily. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mitapivat may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with elagolix, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with elagolix, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%. (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with cobicistat due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with cobicistat due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mitapivat may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mitapivat may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mitapivat may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with encorafenib due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with mitapivat due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ensitrelvir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with enzalutamide due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with erythromycin and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with eslicarbazepine, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with etravirine, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with fedratinib and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of mitapivat is necessary. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like mitapivat with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with fexinidazole, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with fluconazole and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Fluconazole increased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by approximately 2.6-fold and 1.6-fold, respectively, after mitapivat 5, 20, or 50 mg twice daily.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with fluvoxamine and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with fosamprenavir and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with fosphenytoin due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and mitapivat as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during mitapivat treatment due to the risk for increased mitapivat exposure and adverse reactions. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with idelalisib due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with imatinib and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with isavuconazonium and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with itraconazole due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Itraconazole increased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by 4.9-fold and 1.7-fold, respectively, after a single mitapivat 20 mg dose. Itraconazole increased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by 3.6-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively, after mitapivat 50 mg twice daily.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ketoconazole, due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole increased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by approximately 3.9-fold and 2.4-fold, respectively, after mitapivat 5, 20, or 50 mg twice daily.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mitapivat may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with clarithromycin due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects. Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with lefamulin and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with lenacapavir and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Letermovir: (Moderate) In patients receiving mitapivat and letermovir WITHOUT concomitant cyclosporine, do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, avoid coadministration due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; however, combination letermovir/cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ketoconazole, due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole increased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by approximately 3.9-fold and 2.4-fold, respectively, after mitapivat 5, 20, or 50 mg twice daily.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with lonafarnib due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with mitapivat. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with mitapivat. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ritonavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations and may decrease ritonavir concentrations leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and weak inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with lorlatinib, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and mitapivat as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with mitapivat. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution and monitor for mefloquine-related adverse effects if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary as concurrent use may decrease mefloquine exposure and efficacy or increase mefloquine exposure and risk for adverse reactions. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; these effects may be more pronounced with mitapivat as it can induce multiple CYP enzymes. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and CYP2B6; mitapivat is a dual CYP3A and CYP2B6 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, and CYP2C9; mitapivat is a weak CYP3A, CYP2B6, and CYP2C9 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with mifepristone due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with mitotane due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with nafcillin, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with mitapivat. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and mitapivat. Concomitant use may alter sirolimus exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or increased risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with nefazodone due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with nelfinavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with netupitant and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with nilotinib and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ritonavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations and may decrease ritonavir concentrations leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and weak inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and mitapivat may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with nirogacestat and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with mitapivat as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with rifabutin, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
OXcarbazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased plasma levels of MHD, the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine, if coadministered with mitapivat. The oxcarbazepine dose may require adjustment after initiation, dosage modification, or discontinuation of mitapivat. UGT inducers like mitapivat have been shown to decrease MHD exposure by 25 to 49%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with pacritinib, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and mitapivat due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with pexidartinib, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with phenytoin due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with posaconazole due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations and may increase posaconazole exposure. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and P-gp substrate. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mitapivat with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and mitapivat due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with relacorilant due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral mitapivat. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer mitapivat at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of mitapivat is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than seven days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral mitapivat. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer mitapivat at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of mitapivat is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than seven days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease mitapivat exposure and efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. While use is not recommended, if concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhitibor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ribociclib due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ribociclib due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with rifabutin, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with rifampin due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Rifampin decreased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by 91% and 77%, respectively, after a single mitapivat 50 mg dose. Rifampin decreased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by approximately 95% and 85%, respectively, after mitapivat 5, 20, or 50 mg twice daily.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with rifapentine due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with rilzabrutinib and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with mitapivat; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with ritlecitinib and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ritonavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations and may decrease ritonavir concentrations leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and weak inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Sacituzumab Govitecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sacituzumab govitecan and mitapivat due to the risk of decreased sacituzumab govitecan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. The cytotoxic component of sacituzumab govitecan, SN-38, is metabolized by UGT1A1 and mitapivat is a UGT1A1 inducer. Formal drug interaction studies with sacituzumab govitecan have not been conducted but the concomitant use of UGT1A1 inducers is expected to decrease SN-38 exposure.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with saquinavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions. Coadministration increases mitapivat and saquinavir concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and saquinavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mitapivat should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mitapivat. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mitapivat. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitapivat, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitapivat is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and mitapivat due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of mitapivat. Concomitant use may alter sirolimus exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or increased risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in sotagliflozin efficacy during concomitant use of sotagliflozin and mitapivat and adjust therapy as appropriate. Concomitant use may decrease sotagliflozin exposure. Sotagliflozin is a UGT substrate and mitapivat is a UGT inducer. Concomitant use with another UGT inducer reduced sotagliflozin overall exposure by 45%.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with sotorasib, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with St. John's Wort due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if mitapivat must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; a tacrolimus dose adjustment may be needed. Concurrent administration may decrease tacrolimus concentrations. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mitapivat may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with tipranavir due to increased risk of adverse reactions. Coadministration increases mitapivat and may increase tipranavir exposure. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and P-gp substrate. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; mitapivat may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of the P-gp and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with verapamil and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with tucatinib due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Ubrogepant dose adjustment is necessary if coadministered with mitapivat as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and side effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with mitapivat. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with mitapivat due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of mitapivat. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with verapamil and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mitapivat is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mitapivat is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with clarithromycin due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with voriconazole due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with voxelotor and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with mitapivat is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The active metabolite of warfarin, the S-enantiomer, is a CYP2C9 substrate and mitapivat is a CYP2C9 inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Decreases in serum estrone were reported in 56.3% of males receiving mitapivat in clinical trials, and decreases in serum estradiol were reported in 2.5% to 12.5% of males receiving mitapivat. Increases in serum testosterone occurred in 6.3% to 18.6% of males receiving mitapivat. These hormone changes persisted during mitapivat treatment and were reversible in individuals with follow-up measurements after treatment discontinuation. In females, sex hormone analysis was limited due to physiologic variations in hormones during the menstrual cycle and concomitant use of hormonal contraceptives. Hypertriglyceridemia of any grade was reported in 8% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 3% of subjects given placebo; grade 3 or higher hypertriglyceridemia was reported in 5% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 0% of subjects given placebo. Increased urate was also reported in 15% of mitapivat-treated subjects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation
    General Information
    Gastroenteritis of any grade was reported in 8% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 0% of subjects given placebo in clinical trials. Gastroenteritis of grade 3 or more was reported in 3% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 0% of subjects given placebo. Constipation was reported in 5% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 0% of subjects given placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    back pain, flank pain, musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Back pain, including sciatica and flank pain, was reported in 15% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 8% of subjects given placebo in clinical trials. Rib fracture (3%) and musculoskeletal pain (3%) were also reported in subjects receiving mitapivat.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flank pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, paresthesias
    General Information
    Arthralgia, including joint swelling, was reported in 10% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 5% of subjects given placebo in clinical trials. Paresthesias were reported in 5% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 0% of subjects given placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    flushing, hot flashes
    General Information
    Hot flashes (hot flush), including flushing, were reported in 8% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 0% of subjects given placebo in clinical trials. Breast discomfort was reported in 5% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 0% of subjects given placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    xerostomia
    General Information
    Oropharyngeal pain was reported in 8% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 5% of subjects given placebo in clinical trials. Xerostomia, including dry lip, was reported in 5% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 0% of subjects given placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    atrial fibrillation, hypertension, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
    General Information
    Hypertension was reported in 5% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 0% of subjects given placebo in clinical trials, and all reported cases were grade 3. Arrhythmia, including sinus tachycardia, increased heart rate, and atrial fibrillation, was reported in 5% of mitapivat-treated subjects vs. 0% of subjects given placebo. Additionally, supraventricular arrhythmia and supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) were reported in 1.3% of mitapivat-treated subjects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, jaundice
    General Information
    Mitapivat can cause serious hepatotoxicity. Hepatocellular injury has been reported with mitapivat use in individuals with thalassemia; the mitapivat dose for thalassemia is higher than recommenced for the treatment of hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase deficiency. In clinical trials, 0.66% (2 of 301) of mitapivat-treated subjects with thalassemia experienced adverse reactions suggestive of hepatocellular injury during the double-blind period, with additional cases (n = 3) observed during open-label extension periods after switching from placebo to mitapivat. Of these 5 subjects, 2 had serious liver injury and required hospitalization, including 1 subject who experienced jaundice (peak bilirubin 32 mg/dL). Another subject developed jaundice (peak bilirubin 4 mg/dL) without being hospitalized. These events were characterized by a time to onset within the first 6 months of mitapivat treatment with elevated hepatic enzymes, specifically peak elevations of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) of more than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) with or without jaundice. Mitapivat was discontinued in all cases, and liver injury improved upon treatment discontinuation. When using mitapivat for the treatment of anemia of alpha or beta thalassemia, obtain liver function tests, including alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin with fractionation, at baseline, every 4 weeks for 24 weeks, and then as clinically indicated; interrupt mitapivat if clinically significant increases in liver function tests are observed or if ALT is more than 5 times the ULN. Complete a comprehensive evaluation to rule out other causes of liver injury when drug-induced liver injury is suspected. Signs and symptoms of early liver injury may mimic those of thalassemia. If mitapivat-related liver injury caused new or worsening jaundice or ALT of 10 times or more from baseline, do not restart. If mitapivat-related liver injury is not ruled out, but peak ALT is less than 10 times baseline without elevation of bilirubin above baseline, and if mitapivat is resumed, reinitiate liver function test monitoring every 4 weeks for 24 additional weeks. If mitapivat-related liver injury is ruled out, mitapivat may be restarted at provider discretion. Resume liver function test monitoring schedule that existed prior to interrupting mitapivat. When using mitapivat for the treatment of hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase deficiency, obtain liver function tests at baseline, monthly for 6 months, and then as clinically indicated. Discontinue mitapivat if hepatocellular injury due to mitapivat is suspected.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    headache, insomnia
    General Information
    Headache (24.9%) and insomnia (24.3%) have been reported with mitapivat in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Mitapivat is an oral pyruvate kinase activator indicated for the treatment of anemia of alpha or beta thalassemia and for the treatment of hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase deficiency. In adults with alpha or beta thalassemia, or hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase deficiency, mitapivat improved hemoglobin concentrations in non-transfusion-dependent individuals and reduced transfusion burden in transfusion-dependent individuals in clinical trials. Hepatocellular injury has been reported with mitapivat use in individuals with thalassemia; the mitapivat dose for thalassemia is higher than recommenced for the treatment of hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase deficiency. Signs and symptoms of early liver injury may mimic those of thalassemia. Liver function test monitoring is necessary during mitapivat therapy regardless of indication. Mitapivat was FDA-approved in February 2022.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mitapivat is a pyruvate kinase (PK) activator that acts by allosterically binding to the PK tetramer and increasing PK activity. The red blood cell (RBC) form of PK (PK-R) is mutated in PK deficiency, which leads to reduced adenosine triphosphate (ATP), shortened RBC lifespan, and chronic hemolysis. In thalassemia, imbalances in globin chain production during erythropoiesis lead to increased oxidative stress, resulting in ineffective erythropoiesis and hemolysis. In nonclinical models of beta thalassemia, mitapivat improved energy homeostasis, RBC longevity, ineffective erythropoiesis, and hemolysis by increasing PK activity.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The absolute bioavailability of mitapivat is approximately 73% after a single dose. Median Tmax values at steady-state are 0.5 to 1 hour post-dose across the dosing range of 5 to 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat exposure increases in an approximate dose proportional manner over the dosage range of 5 to 100 mg PO twice daily. Steady-state mitapivat exposure pharmacokinetic parameters (geometric means) include Cmax 101.2 nanograms/mL and AUC0-12 450.4 nanograms x hour/mL for 5 mg twice daily, Cmax 389.9 nanograms/mL and AUC0-12 1,623.8 nanograms x hour/mL for 20 mg twice daily, Cmax 935.2 nanograms/mL and AUC0-12 3,591.4 nanograms x hour/mL for 50 mg twice daily, and Cmax 1,641.7 nanograms/mL and AUC0-12 4,835.6 nanograms x hour/mL for 100 mg twice daily. The accumulation ratio is 1.2, 1.1, 1, and 0.83 for 5 mg twice daily, 20 mg twice daily, 50 mg twice daily, and 100 mg twice daily, respectively. After administration of a single dose, a high-fat meal did not change mitapivat exposure but reduced the rate of absorption, with a 42% decrease in Cmax and a 2.3-hour delay in Tmax compared with fasted conditions.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mitapivat undergoes extensive hepatic metabolism. After a single oral administration of mitapivat 50 mg, subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) demonstrated 36% greater exposure (AUC) to mitapivat, compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. Geometric mean Cmax values were similar between the groups. There were no major changes to plasma protein binding or elimination half-life in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment relative to healthy controls. The pharmacokinetics of mitapivat in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) have not been studied.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The effects of renal impairment on mitapivat pharmacokinetics were assessed with population pharmacokinetic analyses. Steady-state AUC of mitapivat in subjects with eGFR 60 to less than 90 mL/minute/1.73 m2 was not significantly different compared to subjects with eGFR 90 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more. There are limited data available with mitapivat in subjects with eGFR 30 to less than 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 and no data available in subjects with eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of mitapivat in pediatric populations have not been studied.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of mitapivat were observed based on age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of mitapivat were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of mitapivat were observed based on race.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    No clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of mitapivat were observed based on body weight.
  Text
  Mitapivat is administered orally. It is highly protein bound (97.7%) in plasma with low red blood cell (RBC) distribution (RBC-to-plasma ratio of 0.37). At steady-state, the mean Vd is 42.5 L. Mitapivat is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. After administration of a single oral dose of 120 mg of radiolabeled mitapivat to healthy subjects, unchanged mitapivat was the major circulating component. The total recovery of administered radioactive dose was 89.2%, with 49.6% in the urine (2.6% unchanged) and 39.6% in the feces (less than 1% unchanged). Population pharmacokinetics derived median CL/F at steady-state was 11.5, 12.7, 14.4, and 17.7 L/hour for the 5 mg twice daily, 20 mg twice daily, 50 mg twice daily, and 100 mg twice daily regimens, respectively. The mean effective half-life of mitapivat ranges from 3 to 5 hours after multiple dose administrations of 5 to 20 mg PO twice daily in individuals with pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, UGT1A1, and P-gp
Mitapivat is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and UGT1A1 inducer, and CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      May be administered with or without food. Swallow tablets whole; do not split, crush, chew, or dissolve the tablets.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed by 4 hours or less, administer the dose as soon as possible. If a dose is missed by more than 4 hours, do not administer a replacement dose, and wait until the next scheduled dose. Then, return to the normal dosing schedule.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Avoid mitapivat use for anemia of alpha or beta thalassemia in individuals with hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh class A, B, or C), and avoid mitapivat use for hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase deficiency in individuals with moderate or severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
