=== Cisapride (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 128)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Cisapride is an oral gastrointestinal prokinetic agent indicated for the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) that is only available via a limited access program.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 80 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): qt prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: Since July 2000, cisapride is available to patients only via registered prescribers in accordance with protocols and clearly defined eligibility criteria.

Brand Names
  - Propulsid

Dosage Forms
  - Cisapride Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of heartburn associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults and Adolescents 16 years and older
          Dosage Description
          Initiate with 10 mg PO 4 times per day at least 15 minutes before meals and at bedtime. In some patients, a dosage of 20 mg PO 4 times per day may be required. A dosage of 20 mg PO twice daily has been shown to be effective in relieving symptoms of mild-moderate GERD in patients with moderate intensity heartburn and no history of erosive inflammation of the esophagus. Some geriatric patients may have increased risk of irregular heart rate.
          Heading
          Children and Adolescents less than 16 years†
          Dosage Description
          0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 mg/dose) PO 3 to 4 times per day. Max: 40 mg/day PO.
          Heading
          Infants†
          Dosage Description
          Initiate at 0.1 mg/kg/dose PO every 8 hours. If needed, increase to 0.2 mg/kg/dose PO every 6 to 8 hours with caution. Do not exceed 0.2 mg/kg/dose. NOTE: The safety and efficacy of the administration of cisapride to infants and premature neonates, especially for the treatment of non-pathological reflux conditions (e.g., establishment of enteral feeds in feeding intolerance), has not been established.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: Since July 2000, cisapride is available to patients only via registered prescribers in accordance with protocols and clearly defined eligibility criteria. The drug is not available in pharmacies. For information, the manufacturer has provided the following toll-free number (877) 795—4247.
 
Cisapride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity or intolerance to the drug.
 
A pre-prescription 12-lead ECG should be performed in all patients prior to the initiation of cisapride. Cisapride is contraindicated for use in patients with a pre-prescription ECG showing QT prolongation (i.e., QTc interval > 450 milliseconds), or in patients with a history of QT prolongation or development of QT prolongation while on treatment. Cardiac arrhythmias, including ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation or torsade de pointes have been reported in patients taking cisapride. Since 1993, over 270 cases of arrhythmic events have been reported, including 70 deaths. Most patients experiencing these adverse reactions were taking other medications, had pre-existing cardiac disease, or had risk factors for developing arrhythmias (see Adverse Reactions). The development of prolonged QT intervals and/or torsade de pointes is also associated with conditions that produce excessive cisapride concentrations such as renal impairment or concomitant use of medications that affect cytochrome P450 3A4 (see Drug Interactions). Cisapride is contraindicated in patients with: a history of QT prolongation or a known family history of congenital long QT syndrome; history of serious cardiac arrhythmias such as 2nd or 3rd degree AV block, bundle-branch block, or ventricular arrhythmias; ischemic cardiac disease; cardiomyopathy; clinically significant bradycardia; congestive heart failure or ventricular dysfunction; sick sinus syndrome; respiratory insufficiency; and valvular heart disease. Cisapride is also contraindicated in patients with uncorrected electrolyte imbalance (hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia). Cisapride should not be prescribed to patients with conditions that could predispose them to electrolyte imbalance, such as: anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa or other eating disorders; severe dehydration; severe diarrhea; hypovolemia; malnutrition; renal failure; severe vomiting; potassium-wasting diuretic therapy in acute settings; or those with diabetic ketoacidosis on insulin therapy in acute settings. Cisapride is contraindicated for use in patients taking concomitant medications known to prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of arrhythmia, or in patients taking medications known to inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 (see Drug Interactions). Recommended dosages of cisapride should not be exceeded, and electrolytes should be monitored before and during therapy if risk factors for electrolyte imbalance are present, such as diuretic therapy. Dosages will need to be adjusted if renal impairment is present. Cisapride should not be used in patients with anuria. Cisapride should be immediately discontinued if syncope or rapid or irregular heartbeat develops; immediate medical attention should be sought. A risk-benefit assessment is warranted before initiating treatment in patients with conditions such as multiple organ failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), apnea, and advanced cancer; these conditions could predispose patients to the development of serious arrhythmias.
 
Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients under the age of 16 years have not been established for any indication. If therapy with cisapride is otherwise being considered, a pre-prescription 12-lead ECG should be performed in all children prior to the initiation of therapy. Cisapride is contraindicated for use in children or infants with a pre-prescription ECG showing QT prolongation (i.e., QTc interval > 450 milliseconds), and in children with a family history of congenital long QT syndrome or with other conditions that may predispose them to arrhythmias (see the Contraindications pertaining to cardiac disease and electrolyte imbalance). The safety of cisapride has not been clearly established in children or infants for any indication. This is true particularly for the use of cisapride for the treatment of non-pathological gastrointestinal illness (e.g., to shorten the time to establishment of enteral feeds in premature infants). Cisapride has been used effectively in children and infants with GERD or significant gastric stasis. However, prolonged QT interval and life-threatening arrhythmias have occasionally been reported (see Adverse Reactions). Neonatal prematurity and young infancy (i.e., 65 years old, generally have higher steady-state plasma levels of cisapride than younger patients, because of an increase in the elimination half-life. Since many elderly patients may have conditions or concurrent drug therapy that may contraindicate the use of cisapride, caution should be exercised. A pre-prescription 12-lead ECG should be performed in all elderly patients prior to the initiation of cisapride. Because some elderly patients may have decline in renal function, dosages should be adjusted based on calculated creatinine clearance.
 
Patients who are treated for GERD are encouraged to avoid ethanol intoxication and tobacco smoking, two lifestyle choices that may exacerbate heartburn.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: Since July 2000, cisapride is available to patients only via registered prescribers in accordance with protocols and clearly defined eligibility criteria. Cisapride is not available in pharmacies. For addtional information, call (877) 795-4247.
    Headline
    anorexia nervosa, bradycardia, bulimia nervosa, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, dehydration, females, geriatric, heart failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, malnutrition, QT prolongation, renal failure, respiratory failure, second or third-degree AV block, serious cardiovascular events, sinus node dysfunction, valvular heart disease, ventricular arrhythmias, vomiting
    General Information
    Cisapride has been associated with serious cardiovascular events, including ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, torsades de pointes, and QT prolongation. Cisapride is contraindicated in people with baseline QT prolongation, bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, or structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease). Avoid use in people who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including geriatric adults, females, or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Cisapride is also contraindicated in people with ventricular arrhythmias, valvular heart disease, heart failure, sinus node dysfunction, second or third-degree AV block, respiratory failure, and conditions that may result in electrolyte disorders, including renal failure, eating disorder (e.g., anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa), and severe dehydration, vomiting, or malnutrition as these people may be predisposed to QT prolongation. An electrocardiogram (ECG) should be performed prior to cisapride use and treatment should not be initiated if the QTc value exceeds 450 milliseconds. Monitor serum electrolytes and renal function before and during therapy.
    Headline
    GI bleeding, GI perforation, mechanical GI obstruction
    General Information
    Cisapride is contraindicated in people where increased gastrointestinal motility may be harmful, such as in individuals with GI bleeding, GI perforation, or mechanical GI obstruction.
    Headline
    apnea, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, malignancy
    General Information
    Consider the benefits versus risks prior to administering cisapride to individuals who have conditions that may predispose them to the development of serious arrhythmias, such as multiple organ failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, apnea, and advanced malignancy.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Adjust cisapride dosage in individuals with hepatic failure. The exposure to cisapride and its metabolites may be higher in people with hepatic failure or impairment.
    Headline
    children, infants, neonates, premature neonates
    General Information
    Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients under the age of 16 years have not been established for any indication. Serious adverse events, including death, have been reported in infants and children treated with cisapride, some due to cardiovascular (third-degree heart black, ventricular tachycardia), seizures, and one case of sudden unexplained death in a 3-month-old. Other reported events include antinuclear antibody (ANA) positivity, anemia, hemolytic anemia, methemoglobinemia, hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia with acidosis, unexplained apneic episodes, confusion, impaired concentration, depression, apathy, visual changes with amnesia, and severe photosensitivity reaction. Complications and adverse events occurred in premature neonates, neonates, and young infants (i.e., younger than 3 months of age) when cisapride was administered at excessive doses or with drugs that inhibit it metabolism, resulting in elevated serum concentrations.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Use cisapride during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies regarding cisapride use during human pregnancy. In animal studies, there was no evidence of teratogenicity. However, cisapride was embryotoxic and fetotoxic in rats at a dose of 160 mg/kg/day (100 times the maximum recommended human dose [MRHD] on a mg/kg basis and 14 times the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis) and in rabbits at a dose of 20 mg/kg/day (approximately 12 times the MRHD on a mg/kg basis) or higher. It also produced reduced birth weights of pups in rats at 40 and 160 mg/kg/day and adversely affected pup survival.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use cisapride with caution during breast-feeding. Use particular care if the breastfed child or the lactating individual is taking other medications that may alter cisapride metabolism. Cisapride is present in human milk at a concentration of about one-twentieth of that observed in plasma. Cisapride milk concentrations were 4.8 mcg/L and 6.2 mcg/L, when collected before and 1 hour after a midday dose (20 mg orally every 8 hours) on day 4 in a population of 10 lactating individuals. This peak concentration corresponds to a maximum dose of 0.93 mcg/kg/day, which is less than the daily infant dosage and approximately 0.1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Use cisapride during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies regarding cisapride use during human pregnancy. In animal studies, there was no evidence of teratogenicity. However, cisapride was embryotoxic and fetotoxic in rats at a dose of 160 mg/kg/day (100 times the maximum recommended human dose [MRHD] on a mg/kg basis and 14 times the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis) and in rabbits at a dose of 20 mg/kg/day (approximately 12 times the MRHD on a mg/kg basis) or higher. It also produced reduced birth weights of pups in rats at 40 and 160 mg/kg/day and adversely affected pup survival.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use cisapride with caution during breast-feeding. Use particular care if the breastfed child or the lactating individual is taking other medications that may alter cisapride metabolism. Cisapride is present in human milk at a concentration of about one-twentieth of that observed in plasma. Cisapride milk concentrations were 4.8 mcg/L and 6.2 mcg/L, when collected before and 1 hour after a midday dose (20 mg orally every 8 hours) on day 4 in a population of 10 lactating individuals. This peak concentration corresponds to a maximum dose of 0.93 mcg/kg/day, which is less than the daily infant dosage and approximately 0.1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving potassium-wasting diuretic therapies, including carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes (potassium, calcium, and magnesium) and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function. Cisapride is contraindicated for use in patients with known serum electrolyte imbalances; cisapride should be discontinued if such imbalances occur.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of cisapride and adagrasib is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program. Additionally, both medications may prolong QT/QTc interval and increase the risk for TdP.
Albuterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Alfuzosin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and alfuzosin is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between alosetron and drugs that enhance peristalsis, such as cisapride, are theoretically possible based on opposing pharmacologic outcomes. It may be wise to avoid use of cisapride concurrently. Although this potential interaction has not been studied, cisapride might negate the effect of alosetron.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Amiodarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of amiodarone and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase cisapride exposure and the risk for other cisapride-related adverse effects. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate, amiodarone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with amisulpride is contraindicated due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function. (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Postmarketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Because of the potential severity of these drug interactions (increased plasma cisapride concentrations and QT prolongation), cisapride use is contraindicated with clarithromycin which inhibits the CYP3A4 isoenzyme.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Major) Amphotericin B- induced electrolyte imbalances can result in significant interactions with other drugs. Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia can potentiate the cardiac toxicity of cisapride. Electrolytes should be monitored in patients who are taking cisapride prior to and during amphoteracin B treatment. Cisapride is contraindicated for use in patients with known serum electrolyte imbalances; cisapride should be discontinued if such imbalances occur while these medications are taken concurrently.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Major) Amphotericin B- induced electrolyte imbalances can result in significant interactions with other drugs. Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia can potentiate the cardiac toxicity of cisapride. Electrolytes should be monitored in patients who are taking cisapride prior to and during amphoteracin B treatment. Cisapride is contraindicated for use in patients with known serum electrolyte imbalances; cisapride should be discontinued if such imbalances occur while these medications are taken concurrently.
Amphotericin B: (Major) Amphotericin B- induced electrolyte imbalances can result in significant interactions with other drugs. Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia can potentiate the cardiac toxicity of cisapride. Electrolytes should be monitored in patients who are taking cisapride prior to and during amphoteracin B treatment. Cisapride is contraindicated for use in patients with known serum electrolyte imbalances; cisapride should be discontinued if such imbalances occur while these medications are taken concurrently.
Anagrelide: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. Because of the potential for TdP, concurrent use is contraindicated.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of cisapride if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of cisapride.
Apomorphine: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), apomorphine use is contraindicated with cisapride. Cisapride has a known risk for QT prolongation and is contraindicated for use with other drugs that may cause QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of cisapride with oral aprepitant is contraindicated due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); use extreme caution if cisapride is used with IV fosaprepitant, and monitor for an increase in cisapride-related adverse effects, including QT prolongation. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer, and may increase plasma concentrations of cisapride . For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8,and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Arformoterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
ARIPiprazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and aripiprazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and complete atrioventricular block have been reported. Because of the potential for TdP, use of arsenic trioxide with cisapride is contraindicated.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Contraindicated) Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, such as cisapride, coadministration may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with other drugs that prolong the QT interval should be avoided. (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride is contraindicated with artemether; lumefantrine.
Asciminib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and asciminib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Asenapine: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), asenapine use is contraindicated with cisapride. Cisapride has a known risk for QT prolongation and is contraindicated for use with other drugs that may cause QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with cobicistat is contraindicated. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, and plasma concentrations of drugs extensively metabolized by this enzyme, such as cisapride, are expected to increase with concurrent use. Elevated plasma concentrations of cisapride have been associated with QT prolongation and serious cardiovascular adverse events including death due to torsade de pointes. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Atomoxetine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and atomoxetine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Atropine: (Moderate) Atropine is an anticholinergic drug and thus can antagonize the action of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, such as cisapride. Use this combination with caution.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride. In general, it would be illogical to use diphenoxylate/difenoxin in combination with prokinetic agents. (Moderate) Atropine is an anticholinergic drug and thus can antagonize the action of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, such as cisapride. Use this combination with caution.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and avacopan; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Azithromycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and azithromycin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Bedaquiline: (Contraindicated) Due to the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), concurrent use of cisapride with bedaquiline is contraindicated. Both drugs are associated with QT prolongation, and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as hyoscyamine, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Benztropine is an antagonist at muscarinic cholinergic receptors (an anticholinergic drug), and thus, can antagonize the action of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, such as cisapride. Avoid chronic administration of antimuscarinics along with prokinetic agents under most circumstances. The clinical significance of these potential interactions is uncertain.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and berotralstat; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Beta-agonists: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Bicalutamide: (Moderate) Use caution when administering bicalutamide with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Bicalutamide is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and lenacapavir; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of metronidazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of metronidazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia. (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as glycopyrrolate, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Bumetanide: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving potassium-wasting diuretic therapies, such as loop diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias.
Buprenorphine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and buprenorphine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and buprenorphine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsades de pointes, use of cisapride with rilpivirine is contraindicated.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and capivasertib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and capivasertib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Cisapride is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as carbamazepine, may increase the clearance of cisapride.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving potassium-wasting diuretic therapies, including carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes (potassium, calcium, and magnesium) and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function. Cisapride is contraindicated for use in patients with known serum electrolyte imbalances; cisapride should be discontinued if such imbalances occur.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes, use of cisapride with ceritinib is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Ceritinib also prolongs the QT interval.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function. (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as drugs that exert antimuscarinic properties may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Chloroquine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of chloroquine with cisapride is contraindicated due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Chlorothiazide: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
chlorproMAZINE: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and chlorpromazine is contraindicated due to the risk for serious adverse events, such as torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Chlorpromazine is also associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP; case reports have included patients receiving therapeutic doses of chlorpromazine.
Chlorthalidone: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Cimetidine: (Major) Consider alternatives to cimetidine in patients receiving cisapride. Coadministration of cimetidine and cisapride results in increased exposure to cisapride. Serious cardiac arrhythmias including ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, torsade de pointes, and QT prolongation have been reported in patients taking cisapride with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A4. In a drug interaction study, cimetidine increased the AUC of cisapride by 45%. Cimetidine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4; cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ciprofloxacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and ciprofloxacin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
CISplatin: (Major) Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Cisplatin can cause hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hyponatremia and impaired renal function. Cisapride is contraindicated for use in patients with known serum electrolyte imbalances; cisapride should be discontinued if such imbalances occur.
Citalopram: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and citalopram due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Postmarketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Because of the potential severity of these drug interactions (increased plasma cisapride concentrations and QT prolongation), cisapride use is contraindicated with clarithromycin which inhibits the CYP3A4 isoenzyme.
Class IA Antiarrhythmics: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Administration of Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine) is associated with QT prolongation and TdP. Because of the potential for TdP, concurrent use of Class IA antiarrhythmics and cisapride is contraindicated.
Clofazimine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of clofazimine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
cloZAPine: (Contraindicated) Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride with clozapine is contraindicated.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with cobicistat is contraindicated. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, and plasma concentrations of drugs extensively metabolized by this enzyme, such as cisapride, are expected to increase with concurrent use. Elevated plasma concentrations of cisapride have been associated with QT prolongation and serious cardiovascular adverse events including death due to torsade de pointes.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of promethazine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of promethazine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Conivaptan: (Contraindicated) Post-marketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Because of the potential severity of these drug interactions (increased plasma cisapride concentrations and QT prolongation), cisapride should not be used with conivaptan, which may inhibit the metabolism of cisapride through CYP3A4.
Crizotinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of crizotinib with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride; crizotinib is also associated with QT prolongation.
cycloSPORINE: (Contraindicated) Cisapride is metabolized by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, have occurred when inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Cyclosporine may have the potential to inhibit the metabolism of cisapride through CYP3A4 and thus, should not be used with cisapride.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Contraindicated) Post-marketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Dalfopristin; quinupristin may have the potential to inhibit the metabolism of cisapride through CYP3A4 and thus, should not be used with cisapride.
Danazol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and danazol; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and danazol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and daridorexant; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and daridorexant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Because darifenacin antagonizes GI muscarinic cholinergic receptors, it decreases gastrointestinal motility. Darifenacin, therefore, may potentially antagonize the actions of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, like cisapride.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with cobicistat is contraindicated. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, and plasma concentrations of drugs extensively metabolized by this enzyme, such as cisapride, are expected to increase with concurrent use. Elevated plasma concentrations of cisapride have been associated with QT prolongation and serious cardiovascular adverse events including death due to torsade de pointes. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with cobicistat is contraindicated. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, and plasma concentrations of drugs extensively metabolized by this enzyme, such as cisapride, are expected to increase with concurrent use. Elevated plasma concentrations of cisapride have been associated with QT prolongation and serious cardiovascular adverse events including death due to torsade de pointes. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Dasatinib: (Contraindicated) In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong cardiac ventricular repolarization (prolong QT interval). Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with dasatinib is contraindicated.
Degarelix: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of degarelix with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Deutetrabenazine: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of deutetrabenazine with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Administration of Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine) is associated with QT prolongation and TdP. Because of the potential for TdP, concurrent use of Class IA antiarrhythmics and cisapride is contraindicated.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Avoid chronic administration of dicyclomine with prokinetic agents, such as cisapride, under most circumstances. Dicyclomine has antimuscarinic properties that may slow GI motility. The clinical significance of this interaction is uncertain.
dilTIAZem: (Contraindicated) Caution should be taken when cisapride (CYP3A4 substrate) is prescribed with diltiazem (CYP3A4 inhibitor); the manufacturer of cisapride considers concurrent use contraindicated. A possible drug interaction occurred in a 45-year-old woman taking cisapride with diltiazem who had near syncopal effects and QT-interval prolongation. After discontinuing cisapride, the QT interval returned to normal without recurrence of symptoms. Prolongation of QT interval, torsades de pointes, and sudden cardiac death have been reported after concomitant administration of cisapride (a CYP3A4 substrate) with other CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride. In general, it would be illogical to use diphenoxylate/difenoxin in combination with prokinetic agents. (Moderate) Atropine is an anticholinergic drug and thus can antagonize the action of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, such as cisapride. Use this combination with caution.
Disopyramide: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Administration of Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine) is associated with QT prolongation and TdP. Because of the potential for TdP, concurrent use of Class IA antiarrhythmics and cisapride is contraindicated.
Dofetilide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with dofetilide is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsades de pointes, use of cisapride with rilpivirine is contraindicated.
Donepezil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and donepezil is contraindicated due to the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP, have been reported with cisapride. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and donepezil is contraindicated due to the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP, have been reported with cisapride. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP.
Dordaviprone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
droPERidol: (Contraindicated) Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). In December 2001, the FDA issued a black box warning regarding the use of droperidol and its association with QT prolongation and potential for cardiac arrhythmias based on post-marketing surveillance data. According to the revised 2001 labeling for droperidol, any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride with droperidol is contraindicated.
Echinacea: (Moderate) Cisapride is metabolized by CYP3A4. Echinacea may inhibit or induce CYP3A4. Monitor for changes in efficacy or toxicity when echinacea is coadministered with drugs that are metabolized by CYP3A4, including cisapride, until more data are available.
Efavirenz: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. QT prolongation has also been observed with efavirenz. Because of the potential for QT prolongation and TdP, use of efavirenz with cisapride is contraindicated.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. QT prolongation has also been observed with efavirenz. Because of the potential for QT prolongation and TdP, use of efavirenz with cisapride is contraindicated.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. QT prolongation has also been observed with efavirenz. Because of the potential for QT prolongation and TdP, use of efavirenz with cisapride is contraindicated.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of cisapride if coadministration with elagolix is necessary; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of cisapride. Elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer and cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of cisapride if coadministration with elagolix is necessary; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of cisapride. Elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer and cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Administering cisapride with grazoprevir may result in elevated cisapride plasma concentrations. Cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eliglustat: (Contraindicated) Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with eliglustat is contraindicated.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and elinzanetant; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with cobicistat is contraindicated. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, and plasma concentrations of drugs extensively metabolized by this enzyme, such as cisapride, are expected to increase with concurrent use. Elevated plasma concentrations of cisapride have been associated with QT prolongation and serious cardiovascular adverse events including death due to torsade de pointes.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with cobicistat is contraindicated. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, and plasma concentrations of drugs extensively metabolized by this enzyme, such as cisapride, are expected to increase with concurrent use. Elevated plasma concentrations of cisapride have been associated with QT prolongation and serious cardiovascular adverse events including death due to torsade de pointes.
Emapalumab: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of cisapride and adjust the dose as needed during coadministration with emapalumab. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic range. Emapalumab may normalize CYP450 activity, which may decrease the efficacy of drugs that are CYP450 substrates due to increased metabolism.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsades de pointes, use of cisapride with rilpivirine is contraindicated.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsades de pointes, use of cisapride with rilpivirine is contraindicated.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and encorafenib is contraindicated due to QT prolongation. Encorafenib is associated with a dose-dependent risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and ensitrelvir; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Entrectinib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with entrectinib is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
eriBULin: (Contraindicated) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Cisapride has been specifically established to have a causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes and is contraindicated for use with eribulin.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Erythromycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of erythromycin and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Escitalopram: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of escitalopram and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving potassium-wasting diuretic therapies, such as loop diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias.
Etrasimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cisapride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with everolimus is necessary. Everolimus is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A while cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate with narrow therapeutic range.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid the use of fedratinib and cisapride concurrently. Coadministration of fedratinib, a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4, with cisapride, a CYP3A4 substrate, can increase cisapride exposure leading to toxicity, specifically an increased risk for QT prolongation.
Fesoterodine: (Moderate) Fesoterodine is an antagonist at muscarinic cholinergic receptors. Fesoterodine may slow GI motility and thus may potentially antagonize the actions of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, like cisapride. However, the clinical significance of this potential interaction is uncertain.
Fexinidazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Finerenone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Fingolimod: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. After the first fingolimod dose, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility is advised for patients taking QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsades de pointes (TdP). Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia. Because of the potential for TdP, use of fingolimod with cisapride is contraindicated.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Because flavoxate can inhibit the motility of the GI tract via anticholinergic actions, it has the potential to interfere with the action of drugs that stimulate GI motility, such as cisapride.
Flecainide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of flecainide and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsades de pointes (TdP). Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride with fluconazole is contraindicated.
FLUoxetine: (Contraindicated) Cisapride is metabolized by CYP3A4 isozyme, a pathway that fluoxetine is known to inhibit, and may inhibit the clearance of and potentiate the toxicity of cisapride. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, have been reported when inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Due to the serious nature of cisapride toxicity, fluoxetine should be avoided in these patients.
fluPHENAZine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and fluphenazine is contraindicated due to the risk for serious adverse events, such as torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Fluphenazine, a phenothiazine, is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
fluvoxaMINE: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), concurrent use of cisapride and fluvoxamine is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine. In addition, cisapride is metabolized by CYP3A4 and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported when inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride.
Formoterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Fosamprenavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Foscarnet: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of foscarnet with cisapride is contraindicated.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Fosfomycin (oral): (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in oral fosfomycin efficacy if concomitant use with a prokinetic agent is necessary. Medications that increase gastric motility decrease oral fosfomycin exposure which may reduce fosfomycin efficacy.
Fosfomycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in oral fosfomycin efficacy if concomitant use with a prokinetic agent is necessary. Medications that increase gastric motility decrease oral fosfomycin exposure which may reduce fosfomycin efficacy.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and fostamatinib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Fostemsavir: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of fostemsavir with cisapride is contraindicated. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Furosemide: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving potassium-wasting diuretic therapies, such as loop diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias.
Gemifloxacin: (Contraindicated) Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with gemifloxacin is contraindicated.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of gemtuzumab ozogamicin with cisapride is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab ozogamicin, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Gepirone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and gepotidacin due to the risk for increased cisapride exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate, gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Gilteritinib: (Contraindicated) Use of gilteritinib with cisapride is contraindicated because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of givinostat and cisapride due to the risk for increased cisapride exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate, givinostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of glasdegib and cisapride is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as glycopyrrolate, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia. (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as glycopyrrolate, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Goserelin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), the use of goserelin with cisapride is contraindicated. Prolongation of the QT interval and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., goserelin) also prolongs the QT interval; the risk may be increased with the concurrent use of drugs that may prolong the QT interval.
Granisetron: (Contraindicated) Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, use of granisetron with drugs known to prolong the QT interval or are arrhythmogenic, may result in clinical consequences. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with granisetron is contraindicated.
Grapefruit juice: (Contraindicated) Cisapride serum concentrations increase on average by 50% in the presence of grapefruit juice. Advise patients to not drink grapefruit juice while taking cisapride, as the risk of cisapride induced side effects, including cardiac effects, could be increased. Grapefruit juice increases the bioavailability of cisapride by inhibiting CYP3A4 in enterocytes. Grapefruit juice contains furanocoumarins that are metabolized by CYP3A4 to reactive intermediates. These intermediates form a covalent bond to the active site of the CYP3A4 enzyme, causing irreversible inactivation (mechanism-based inhibition). Consequently, CYP3A4 activity in the gut wall is inhibited until de novo synthesis returns the enzyme to its previous level. Elderly patients have the greatest possibility of ingesting grapefruit and interacting medications and are the most vulnerable to the adverse clinical consequences.
Haloperidol: (Contraindicated) Cisapride is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and cisapride is contraindicated for use in patients taking other drugs known to prolong the QT interval. Both QT prolongation and TdP have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with haloperidol is contraindicated.
Histrelin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), the use of histrelin with cisapride is contraindicated. Prolongation of the QT interval and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., histrelin) also prolongs the QT interval; the risk may be increased with the concurrent use of drugs that may prolong the QT interval.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as homatropine, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
hydrOXYzine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of hydroxyzine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as hyoscyamine, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as hyoscyamine, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Ibutilide: (Contraindicated) Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, concurrent use is contraindicated.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with cisapride, a CYP3A substrate, as cisapride toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Iloperidone: (Contraindicated) Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; however, cases of torsade de pointes (TdP) have not been reported. Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride with iloperidone is contraindicated.
Imatinib: (Contraindicated) Imatinib is a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 CYP 3A4 and may increase concentrations of cisapride if coadministered. Increased concentrations of cisapride have lead to QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death. Because of the potential severity of this drug interaction, imatinib should not be used with cisapride.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with cisapride is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Insulins: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Do not use isavuconazonium and cisapride concurrently. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co-administration of isavuconazole with CYP3A4 substrates, such as cisapride, can increase cisapride exposure leading to toxicity, specifically an increased risk for QT prolongation.
Isoflurane: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of the halogenated anesthetics with cisapride is contraindicated.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Post-marketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A are coadministered with cisapride. Isoniazid may inhibit the metabolism of cisapride through CYP3A and thus, should not be used with cisapride.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for cisapride-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Cisapride is contraindicated for use during and for 2 weeks after itraconazole therapy. Serious cardiovascular events including EKG changes (i.e., QT prolongation), cardiac arrhythmias, including ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest, and sudden death have occurred when cisapride and itraconazole were administered together. Itraconazole is an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4, which may cause increased plasma concentrations of cisapride resulting in potentially serious and life-threatening side effects, including EKG changes (i.e., QT prolongation), cardiac arrhythmias, including ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest, and sudden death have occurred when cisapride and itraconazole were administered together. Itraconazole is an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4, which may cause increased plasma concentrations of cisapride resulting in potentially serious and life-threatening side effects.
Ivosidenib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ivosidenib with cisapride is contraindicated due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of cisapride. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole causes a mean eight-fold increase in cisapride concentrations.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Postmarketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Because of the potential severity of these drug interactions (increased plasma cisapride concentrations and QT prolongation), cisapride use is contraindicated with clarithromycin which inhibits the CYP3A4 isoenzyme.
Lapatinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of lapatinib with cisapride is contraindicated. Prolongation of the QT interval and ventricular arrhythmias, including and death, have been reported with cisapride. Lapatinib has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and TdP have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lazertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and lazertinib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Lefamulin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with lefamulin is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and lenacapavir; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Lenvatinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with lenvatinib is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Prolongation of the QT interval has also been reported with lenvatinib therapy.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for cisapride-related adverse events if given with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of cisapride, a CYP3A4 substrate, may occur during concurrent administration with letermovir, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Leuprolide: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), the use of leuprolide with cisapride is contraindicated. Prolongation of the QT interval and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., leuprolide) also prolongs the QT interval; the risk may be increased with the concurrent use of drugs that may prolong the QT interval.
Levalbuterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
levoFLOXacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of levofloxacin and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of cisapride. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole causes a mean eight-fold increase in cisapride concentrations.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Lithium: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of lithium and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lofexidine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lofexidine and cisapride is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of TdP. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Loop diuretics: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving potassium-wasting diuretic therapies, such as loop diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias.
Loperamide: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest, coadministration is contraindicated.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest, coadministration is contraindicated.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of cisapride by decreasing its systemic exposure; use together with caution and consider cisapride dosage adjustment if necessary. Do not exceed recommended dosages. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of cisapride by decreasing its systemic exposure; use together with caution and consider cisapride dosage adjustment if necessary. Do not exceed recommended dosages. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Macimorelin: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of macimorelin with cisapride is contraindicated. Before administering macimorelin, discontinue use of cisapride and allow a sufficient washout period to pass.
Maribavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and maribavir; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Mavorixafor: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and cisapride due to increased cisapride exposure and risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Contraindicated) There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data and the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with mefloquine is contraindicated.
Metaproterenol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Methadone: (Contraindicated) Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction. Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride with methadone is contraindicated.
methazolAMIDE: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving potassium-wasting diuretic therapies, including carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes (potassium, calcium, and magnesium) and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function. Cisapride is contraindicated for use in patients with known serum electrolyte imbalances; cisapride should be discontinued if such imbalances occur.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as hyoscyamine, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as methscopolamine, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
metOLazone: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of metronidazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Midostaurin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of midostaurin with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mifepristone and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Mirtazapine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mirtazapine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and cisapride are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of cisapride and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of cisapride.
Mobocertinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Cisapride is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as modafinil, may increase the clearance of cisapride.
Moxifloxacin: (Contraindicated) Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with administration of moxifloxacin. Postmarketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including torsade de pointes (TdP), usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded. Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride with moxifloxacin is contraindicated.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. The dosage of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Postmarketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Because of the potential severity of these drug interactions (increased plasma cisapride concentrations and QT prolongation), nefazodone, which inhibits CYP3A4 isoenzymes, is contraindicated for use with cisapride.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as glycopyrrolate, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Nevirapine: (Minor) Monitor for reduced efficacy of cisapride if coadministration with nevirapine is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease cisapride exposure. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Simultaneous administration of cisapride and nifedipine may lead to increased plasma concentrations of nifedipine.
Nilotinib: (Contraindicated) Nilotinib prolongs the QT interval. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with nilotinib is contraindicated.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and cisapride and consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase cisapride exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and nirogacestat; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Ofloxacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ofloxacin and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
OLANZapine: (Contraindicated) Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with olanzapine is contraindicated.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Contraindicated) Cisapride is metabolized by CYP3A4 isozyme, a pathway that fluoxetine is known to inhibit, and may inhibit the clearance of and potentiate the toxicity of cisapride. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, have been reported when inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Due to the serious nature of cisapride toxicity, fluoxetine should be avoided in these patients. (Contraindicated) Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with olanzapine is contraindicated.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Contraindicated) Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with olanzapine is contraindicated.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function. (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Olodaterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Cisapride is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as rifabutin, may increase the clearance of cisapride.
Ondansetron: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ondansetron and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Cisapride is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of cisapride may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Osilodrostat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with osilodrostat is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of osimertinib with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation has also occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Concomitant use may increase the risk of QT prolongation.
Oxaliplatin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of oxaliplatin with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including fatal TdP and death, have been reported with both cisapride and oxaliplatin.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
OXcarbazepine: (Moderate) Cisapride is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as oxcarbazepine, may increase the clearance of cisapride.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Oxybutynin is an antimuscarinic that decreases GI motility; drugs that exert antimuscarinic properties may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as cisapride. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Ozanimod: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with ozanimod is contraindicated due to the risk for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Pacritinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and pacritinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Palbociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cisapride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with palbociclib is necessary. Palbociclib is a weak time-dependent inhibitor of CYP3A while cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate with narrow therapeutic range.
Paliperidone: (Contraindicated) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride with paliperidone is contraindicated.
Panobinostat: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of panobinostat with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Pasireotide: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of pasireotide and cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Coadministration of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
PAZOPanib: (Contraindicated) Pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with pazopanib is contraindicated.
Pentamidine: (Contraindicated) Pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with pentamidine is contraindicated.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Perphenazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and perphenazine is contraindicated due to the risk for serious adverse events, such as torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Perphenazine, a phenothiazine, is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and perphenazine is contraindicated due to the risk for serious adverse events, such as torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Perphenazine, a phenothiazine, is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Atropine is an anticholinergic drug and thus can antagonize the action of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, such as cisapride. Use this combination with caution. (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as hyoscyamine, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride. (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as scopolamine, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Cisapride is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as phenytoin may increase the clearance of cisapride.
Pimavanserin: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because pimavanserin causes QT prolonging effects that may be additive to those of cisapride, coadministration is contraindicated.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride with pimozide is contraindicated.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and pirtobrutinib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Pitolisant: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with pitolisant is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with ponesimod is contraindicated due to the risk for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of posaconazole and cisapride is contraindicated due to the risk of life threatening arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of cisapride. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated cisapride plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for cisapride-related adverse events, such as QT prolongation. Additionally, posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes; avoid use with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval and are metabolized through CYP3A4, such as cisapride.
Primaquine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of primaquine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Use increases cisapride exposure and the risk of cisapride-related adverse effects, including QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate, primaquine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Primidone: (Moderate) Cisapride is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as primidone, may increase the clearance of cisapride.
Procainamide: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Administration of Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine) is associated with QT prolongation and TdP. Because of the potential for TdP, concurrent use of Class IA antiarrhythmics and cisapride is contraindicated.
Prochlorperazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and prochlorperazine is contraindicated due to the risk for serious adverse events, such as torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Prochlorperazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP.
Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of promethazine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of promethazine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of promethazine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Propafenone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of propafenone and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Protease inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
QUEtiapine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of quetiapine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Administration of Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine) is associated with QT prolongation and TdP. Because of the potential for TdP, concurrent use of Class IA antiarrhythmics and cisapride is contraindicated.
quiNINE: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use is contraindicated. Cisapride is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Postmarketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Quinine has the potential to inhibit the metabolism of cisapride through CYP3A4. In addition, quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP.
Quizartinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of quizartinib and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. The mean increase in QTc is about 6 milliseconds, measured at the tmax of the maximum dosage (1000 mg PO twice daily). However, in 5% of the population studied, increases in the QTc of at least 15 milliseconds have been reported. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of ranolazine with cisapride is contraindicated. In addition, in vitro studies indicate that ranolazine and its metabolite are inhibitors of CYP3A isoenzymes. The impact of coadministering ranolazine with other CYP3A4 substrates has not been studied. Ranolazine may theoretically increase plasma concentrations of CYP3A4 substrates, such as cisapride, potentially leading to adverse reactions.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and relacorilant; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Relugolix: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of relugolix with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of relugolix with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Remdesivir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and remdesivir; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and remdesivir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
Revumenib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ribociclib with cisapride is contraindicated due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Systemic exposure of cisapride may also be increased with concomitant use. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib is also a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ribociclib with cisapride is contraindicated due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Systemic exposure of cisapride may also be increased with concomitant use. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib is also a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Cisapride is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as rifabutin, may increase the clearance of cisapride.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Cisapride is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, specifically the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as rifampin, may increase the clearance of cisapride.
Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsades de pointes, use of cisapride with rilpivirine is contraindicated.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and rilzabrutinib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
risperiDONE: (Contraindicated) Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); however, data are currently lacking to establish causality in association with TdP. Reports of QT prolongation and TdP during risperidone therapy are noted by the manufacturer, primarily in the overdosage setting. Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride with risperidone is contraindicated.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
romiDEPsin: (Contraindicated) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with romidepsin is contraindicated.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cisapride-related adverse reactions if concurrent treatment with rucaparib is necessary, as plasma concentrations of cisapride may increase. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Rufinamide: (Minor) Rufinamide is not metabolized through hepatic CYP isozymes; however, it is a weak inducer of CYP3A4. In theory, decreased exposure of drugs that are extensively metabolized by CYP3A4, such as cisapride, may occur during concurrent use with rufinamide.
Salmeterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Sarilumab: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of cisapride if coadministration with sarilumab is necessary. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by sarilumab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates compared to metabolism prior to treatment. Therefore, CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, such as cisapride, may have fluctuations in drug levels and therapeutic effect when sarilumab therapy is started or discontinued. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping sarilumab. In vitro, sarilumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate and a narrow therapeutic index drug.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as scopolamine, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Secukinumab: (Moderate) If secukinumab is initiated or discontinued in a patient taking cisapride, monitor for altered patient response to cisapride; cisapride dose adjustments may be needed. The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be altered by increased concentrations of cytokines during chronic inflammation. Thus, the formation of CYP450 enzymes could be normalized during secukinumab administration. In theory, clinically relevant drug interactions may occur with CYP450 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic index such as cisapride.
Selpercatinib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with selpercatinib is contraindicated due to the risk for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Selpercatinib can cause concentration-dependent interval prolongation.
Sertraline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of sertraline and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and sevabertinib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Sevoflurane: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of the halogenated anesthetics with cisapride is contraindicated.
Siltuximab: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of cisapride if coadministration with siltuximab is necessary. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by siltuximab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates compared to metabolism prior to treatment. Therefore, CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, such as cisapride, may have fluctuations in drug levels and therapeutic effect when siltuximab therapy is started or discontinued. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping siltuximab. In vitro, siltuximab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate and a narrow therapeutic index drug.
Siponimod: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of siponimod and cisapride is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of cisapride. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects.
Solifenacin: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of solifenacin with cisapride is contraindicated.
SORAfenib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of sorafenib with cisapride is contraindicated. Prolongation of the QT interval and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Sorafenib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Sotalol: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of sotalol and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) St. John's Wort appears to induce several isoenzymes of the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system. Co-administration of St. John's wort could decrease the efficacy of some medications metabolized by these enzymes including cisapride.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of cisapride when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of cisapride resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Streptogramins: (Contraindicated) Post-marketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Dalfopristin; quinupristin may have the potential to inhibit the metabolism of cisapride through CYP3A4 and thus, should not be used with cisapride.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in diabetic patients, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and adjust if cliniically indicated.
SUNItinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), the use of sunitinib with cisapride is contraindicated. Prolongation of the QT interval and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Sunitinib can cause dose-dependent QT prolongation, which may also increase the risk for ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP.
Tacrolimus: (Contraindicated) Tacrolimus prolongs the QTc interval. Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with tacrolimus is contraindicated.
Taletrectinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tamoxifen: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of tamoxifen and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Telavancin: (Contraindicated) Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with telavancin is contraindicated.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Terbutaline: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Tetrabenazine: (Contraindicated) Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of tetrabenazine with cisapride is contraindicated.
Thiazide diuretics: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and thioridazine is contraindicated due to the risk for serious adverse events, such as torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Thioridazine is also associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and ticagrelor; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and ticagrelor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of protease inhibitors and cisapride is contraindicated; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for cisapride-related adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors also is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Tocilizumab: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of cisapride if coadministration with tocilizumab is necessary. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by tocilizumab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates compared to metabolism prior to treatment. Therefore, CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, such as cisapride, may have fluctuations in drug levels and therapeutic effect when tocilizumab therapy is started or discontinued. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping tocilizumab. In vitro, tocilizumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate and narrow therapeutic index drug.
Tolterodine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and tolterodine is contraindicated due to the risk for serious adverse events, such as torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Tolterodine has also been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of toremifene with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Torsemide: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving potassium-wasting diuretic therapies, such as loop diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Contraindicated) Postmarketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Verapamil may have the potential to inhibit the metabolism of cisapride through CYP3A4 and thus, should not be used with cisapride.
traZODone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of trazodone and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Treosulfan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and treosulfan; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and treosulfan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Triclabendazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of triclabendazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Trifluoperazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and trifluoperazine is contraindicated due to the risk for serious adverse events, such as torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Trifluoperazine, a phenothiazine, is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as trihexyphenidyl, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Triptorelin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of triptorelin with cisapride is contraindicated. Prolongation of the QT interval and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., triptorelin) also prolongs the QT interval; the risk may be increased with the concurrent use of drugs that may prolong the QT interval.
Trofinetide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and trofinetide; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Trospium: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as trospium, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Vandetanib: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Because vandetanib causes QT prolonging effects that may be additive to those of cisapride, coadministration is contraindicated.
Vardenafil: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vardenafil and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Vemurafenib: (Contraindicated) Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with vemurafenib is contraindicated.
Venlafaxine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of venlafaxine and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Vepdegestrant: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and cisapride due to the risk for increased cisapride exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Verapamil: (Contraindicated) Postmarketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Verapamil may have the potential to inhibit the metabolism of cisapride through CYP3A4 and thus, should not be used with cisapride.
Viloxazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and viloxazine; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Voclosporin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of voclosporin and cisapride is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and vonoprazan; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and vonoprazan; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Postmarketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Because of the potential severity of these drug interactions (increased plasma cisapride concentrations and QT prolongation), cisapride use is contraindicated with clarithromycin which inhibits the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and vonoprazan; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Due to the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), coadministration of cisapride and voriconazole is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Voriconazole is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of TdP.
Vorinostat: (Contraindicated) Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with vorinostat is contraindicated.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and voxelotor; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Data indicate that administration of cisapride to patients receiving oral anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin) may cause a prolongation in the prothrombin time and increase the INR. When using cisapride with warfarin, monitor the coagulation time during the initiation and discontinuation of cisapride. Warfarin dose adjustment may be necessary.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and xanomeline; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program. (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as trospium, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Zafirlukast: (Contraindicated) Post-marketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Zafirlukast may have the potential to inhibit the metabolism of cisapride through CYP3A4 and thus, is essentially considered contraindicated for use with cisapride.
Zidesamtinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Ziftomenib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and ziftomenib due to the risk for increased cisapride exposure and additive risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ziprasidone: (Contraindicated) Cisapride has a well-established potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ziprasidone is contraindicated with any drugs that list QT prolongation as a pharmacodynamic effect when this effect has been described within the contraindications or bolded or boxed warnings of the official labeling for such drugs, including cisapride. Ziprasidone has also been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP).

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The most common adverse reactions associated with cisapride therapy are headache (19.2%), nausea/vomiting (7.6%), abdominal pain (10.2%), rhinitis (7.3%), diarrhea (14.2%), and constipation (6.7%). These reactions also occurred more frequently in patients receiving 20 mg of cisapride than in those receiving 10 mg. Other adverse effects attributed to cisapride therapy are flatulence, dyspepsia, sinusitis, cough, viral infection, upper respiratory tract infection, pain, fever, urinary tract infection, urinary frequency, insomnia, anxiety, nervousness, rash, pruritus, arthralgia, visual impairment, vaginitis, dizziness, pharyngitis, angina, fatigue, back pain, depression, dehydration, and myalgia.Sinus tachycardia and serious cardiac arrhythmias have been reported in patients receiving cisapride. Cases of QT prolongation, which have resulted in ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, or torsade de pointes, have been documented. Most patients experiencing these cardiac adverse reactions were taking other medications (see Drug Interactions), had pre-existing cardiac disease, or had risk factors for arrhythmias. As of April 1996, the FDAs MedWatch program had received 34 reports of torsade de pointes and 23 reports of QT prolongation. Thirty-two of these 57 patients were taking medications that are known to inhibit the enzyme system responsible for metabolism of cisapride, namely, the cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzyme. For most patients, the cardiac arrhythmia disappeared after discontinuation of cisapride or the concomitantly-administered drug thought to be responsible for inhibition of cisapride metabolism. As of May 1999, no less than 270 such cardiac events had been reported, including 70 deaths. In approximately 85% of these cases, cisapride was utilized despite the presence of known risk factors which predisposed the patient to arrhythmias, such as cardiac disease or electrolyte imbalances. Life-threatening arrhythmias and prolonged QT interval have also been reported in children. At least two studies have shown that cisapride can prolong the corrected QT interval in children. In the majority, but not all, of the children with QTc prolongation, other factors were present which may have contributed to a long QT interval. Two children who had documented torsade de pointes were taking cisapride concomitantly with a macrolide antibiotic. In all patients, the development of prolonged QT intervals and/or torsade de pointes is associated with conditions that predispose the patient to arrhythmia or that produce excessive cisapride concentrations such as renal insufficiency or the concomitant use of medications that inhibit the cytochrome P4503A4 isoenzyme or that deplete electrolytes. Excessive doses of cisapride and use with other medications that prolong the QT interval should be avoided. All patients should be screened for contraindications to cisapride use prior to the initiation of therapy. Suspected adverse events may be reported to the manufacturer at (800) 526—7736 or to the FDA MedWatch system at (800) 332—1088.Adverse events in which cisapride has not been clearly implicated include rare reports of seizures and extrapyramidal effects, elevated liver enzymes, hepatitis, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, aplastic anemia, pancytopenia, and granulocytopenia.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Adverse events in which cisapride has not been clearly implicated include rare reports of seizures and extrapyramidal effects, elevated liver enzymes, hepatitis, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, aplastic anemia, pancytopenia, and granulocytopenia.
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anxiety, arthralgia, back pain, constipation, cough, dehydration, depression, diarrhea, dizziness, dyspepsia, fatigue, flatulence, headache, insomnia, myalgia, nausea, pharyngitis, pruritus, rhinitis, visual impairment, vomiting
    General Information
    The most common adverse reactions associated with cisapride therapy are headache (19.2%), nausea/vomiting (7.6%), abdominal pain (10.2%), rhinitis (7.3%), diarrhea (14.2%), and constipation (6.7%). These reactions also occurred more frequently in patients receiving 20 mg of cisapride than in those receiving 10 mg. Other adverse effects attributed to cisapride therapy are flatulence, dyspepsia, sinusitis, cough, viral infection, upper respiratory tract infection, pain, fever, urinary tract infection, urinary frequency, insomnia, anxiety, nervousness, rash, pruritus, arthralgia, visual impairment, vaginitis, dizziness, pharyngitis, angina, fatigue, back pain, depression, dehydration, and myalgia.
    Headline
    QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Sinus tachycardia and serious cardiac arrhythmias have been reported in patients receiving cisapride. Cases of QT prolongation, which have resulted in ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, or torsade de pointes, have been documented. Most patients experiencing these cardiac adverse reactions were taking other medications, had pre-existing cardiac disease, or had risk factors for arrhythmias. As of April 1996, the FDAs MedWatch program had received 34 reports of torsade de pointes and 23 reports of QT prolongation. Thirty-two of these 57 patients were taking medications that are known to inhibit the enzyme system responsible for metabolism of cisapride, namely, the cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzyme. For most patients, the cardiac arrhythmia disappeared after discontinuation of cisapride or the concomitantly-administered drug thought to be responsible for inhibition of cisapride metabolism. As of May 1999, no less than 270 such cardiac events had been reported, including 70 deaths. In approximately 85% of these cases, cisapride was utilized despite the presence of known risk factors which predisposed the patient to arrhythmias, such as cardiac disease or electrolyte imbalances. Life-threatening arrhythmias and prolonged QT interval have also been reported in children. At least two studies have shown that cisapride can prolong the corrected QT interval in children. In the majority, but not all, of the children with QTc prolongation, other factors were present which may have contributed to a long QT interval. Two children who had documented torsade de pointes were taking cisapride concomitantly with a macrolide antibiotic. In all patients, the development of prolonged QT intervals and/or torsade de pointes is associated with conditions that predispose the patient to arrhythmia or that produce excessive cisapride concentrations such as renal insufficiency or the concomitant use of medications that inhibit the cytochrome P4503A4 isoenzyme or that deplete electrolytes. Excessive doses of cisapride and use with other medications that prolong the QT interval should be avoided. All patients should be screened for contraindications to cisapride use prior to the initiation of therapy. Suspected adverse events may be reported to the manufacturer at (800) 526—7736 or to the FDA MedWatch system at (800) 332—1088.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      torsade de pointes
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Cisapride is an oral gastrointestinal prokinetic agent indicated for the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) that is only available via a limited access program. Although chemically similar to metoclopramide, cisapride lacks the central nervous system-depressant and antidopaminergic effects that can occur with metoclopramide. In comparative trials of cisapride with metoclopramide and H2-blockers in patients with GERD, cisapride was shown to be at least as effective as these agents. Also, combination therapy with cisapride and an H2-blocker produced higher healing rates than did either agent alone in the treatment of esophagitis. Cisapride has been used off-label in the treatment of children with GERD and in adults with diabetic gastroparesis. There are many contraindications to the use of cisapride. Cisapride has been associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, particularly when used in combination with other drugs that inhibit its clearance. Due to the potential for serious cardiac events, the drug should only be used in circumstances where other therapeutic measures have failed to provide adequate responses. As of May 2000, cisapride is only available via investigational protocols of a limited-access program for patients who are unresponsive to other medications. The three investigational protocols include: a) In adults, for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), gastroparesis, pseudo-obstruction, and severe chronic constipation; b) In pediatrics, refractory GERD (associated with failure to thrive, asthma, bradycardia, apnea, or other serious conditions) or pseudo-obstruction and c) In neonates, for feeding intolerance. Only registered prescribers may use cisapride in accordance with these protocols and clearly defined eligibility criteria. For information, the manufacturer has provided the following toll-free number 877-795-4247.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Cisapride promotes acetylcholine release from postganglionic nerve endings in the myenteric plexus-longitudinal muscles of the GI tract, thereby indirectly improving gastrointestinal motility. The exact mechanism by which cisapride exerts its prokinetic effects is not known. It has been shown that it acts as both an agonist and antagonist at serotonin receptors throughout the GI tract. Animal studies reveal cisapride is an agonist at type 4 serotonin (5-HT4) receptors and is an antagonist at type 3 serotonin (5-HT3) receptors. It is believed that the prokinetic effects of cisapride are due more to actions at the 5-HT4 receptor because agonism at this receptor causes relaxation of smooth muscle in rat esophagus and contraction of smooth muscle in human stomach and guinea-pig colon tissue.
 
The resultant clinical effects seen with cisapride therapy include decreased exposure of the esophagus to gastric acid, increased lower esophageal sphincter pressure and esophageal motility, accelerated gastric emptying of both liquids and solids, and decreased colonic transit time. Consequently, these actions contribute to the relief of symptoms and the healing of lesions associated with reflux disease.
 
Although it is not clear how cisapride affects cardiac conduction, cisapride does possess structural similarities to procainamide. QT prolongation, vetnricular arrhythmias, and torsade de pointes have been reported for both drugs.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, the absolute bioavailability of cisapride is about 40—50%. Peak plasma levels occur 1—2 hours after administration with an onset of action of within 30—60 minutes.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The elimination half-life of cisapride is about 10 hours in healthy volunteers and may be prolonged in patients with hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Cisapride should be used cautiously in patients with renal impairment since this may lead to elevated cisapride serum concentrations, a scenario that has been associated with QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The elimination half-life of cisapride is about 10 hours in healthy volunteers and may be prolonged in the elderly. Steady-state plasma concentrations are generally higher in the elderly.
  Text
  Cisapride is administered orally. Protein binding is approximately 98%, primarily to albumin. Metabolism is extensive with no active metabolites. Since cisapride is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 enzyme system (specifically, the CYP3A4 isoenzyme), it is susceptible to interactions with drugs that are known inhibitors of this system (e.g., erythromycin, ketoconazole). The elimination half-life is about 10 hours in healthy volunteers and may be prolonged in patients with hepatic impairment or in the elderly.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP3A4

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets
Usually administered at least 15 minutes before meals and at bedtime.
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Oral suspension (1 mg/mL):
Shake well before each use.
To ensure accurate dosing, measure each dose using a calibrated oral measuring device.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer 15 minutes before meals and at bedtime.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    80 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    80 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    >= 16 years: 80 mg/day PO.
 < 16 years: 0.6—0.8 mg/kg/day PO has been suggested; do not exceed 10mg/dose PO or 40 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    0.6—0.8 mg/kg/day PO has been suggested; do not exceed 10mg/dose PO or 40 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    0.6 mg/kg/day PO in divided doses has been suggested. Do not exceed 0.2 mg/kg/dose.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  In patients with significant hepatic impairment, reduce initial dosage by 50%.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl >= 30 mL/min: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 10—30 mL/min: Reduce recommended dose by 50%.
CrCl < 10 mL/min: Contraindicated in patients with renal failure.
