=== Atropine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 49)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Atropine is a naturally occurring tertiary amine extracted from belladonna alkaloid that consists of a racemic mixture of both d- and l-hyoscyamine, which differ in their antimuscarinic potencies.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC), ophthalmic, topical, oral; Common adult doses: 0.5 to 1 mg IV every 3 to 5 minutes as needed up to 3 mg. Doses less than 0.5 mg IV have been associated with paradoxical bradycardia. The same dosage may be given via the intraosseous route when IV access is not available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): hypersalivation, laryngitis, laryngospasm, nasal dryness, oral ulceration, blepharitis, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, cycloplegia, keratoconjunctivitis, lacrimation, mydriasis, ocular irritation, photophobia, visual impairment, xerophthalmia, ileus, pulmonary edema, respiratory arrest, respiratory depression, tachypnea, atopic dermatitis, cyanosis, maculopapular rash, petechiae, rash, urinary incontinence, urinary retention, urinary urgency, angina

In an Overdose: Ophthalmic Dosage (Ophthalmic ointment only) Adults Apply a small amount of the ointment in the conjunctival sac 1- to 2-times per day; take care to avoid overdosage. Infants 3 months and older, Children, and Adolescents Apply a small amount of the ointment in the conjunctival sac 1- to 2-times per day; take care to avoid overdosage.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Medical supervision is necessary in individuals who have had previous anaphylactic reactions to atropine and require treatment with parenteral atropine for organophosphorus or nerve...

ATROPINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Atreza, Atropen, Atropine Care , Atropisol , Isopto Atropine, Ocu-Tropine, Sal-Tropine

Indication Specific Dosing


Patients with known coronary artery disease dosing: limit the total dose of parenteral atropine to 0.03 to 0.04 mg/kg.


For the treatment of symptomatic bradycardia† (e.g., vasovagal response, AV block, or bradyarrhythmias)

Intravenous or Intraosseus† dosage
Adults


0.5 to 1 mg IV every 3 to 5 minutes as needed up to 3 mg. Doses less than 0.5 mg IV have been associated with paradoxical bradycardia. The same dosage may be given via the intraosseous route when IV access is not available.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


0.02 mg/kg/dose IV (minimum dose: 0.1 mg IV) is recommended by PALS; the dose may be repeated 1 time. Max: 0.5 mg/dose IV. The same dosage may be given via the intraosseous route when IV access is not available.


Neonates


0.02 mg/kg/dose IV; may repeat dose 1 time. Per PALS, the minimum single dose is 0.1 mg, however, some argue that this may be an excessive dose in very small neonates since the total dosage would be greater than 0.02 mg/kg. The same dosage may be given via the intraosseous route when IV access is not available.


Endotracheal dosage
Adults


1 to 2 mg ET (diluted in no more than 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or Sterile Water for Injection) per product labeling for FDA-approved indications. Clinical practice guidelines do not include the endotracheal administration of atropine.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


0.04 to 0.06 mg/kg/dose ET (minimum dose: 0.1 mg ET); may repeat dose 1 time. Max: 0.5 mg/dose ET. Flush the ET tube with a minimum of 5 mL 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection and follow with 5 ventilations. The optimal dosage has not been established.


Neonates


0.01 to 0.03 mg/kg/dose ET; may repeat dose 1 time. Flush the ET tube with a minimum of 1 to 5 mL (dependent on body weight with smaller patients getting smaller volumes) 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection and follow with 5 ventilations.


Intramuscular dosage
Neonates, Infants, Children, and Adolescents


0.02 to 0.04 mg/kg/dose IM.


For the treatment of bradyasystolic cardiac arrest

Intravenous or Intraosseous† Dosage
Adults


1 mg IV every 3 to 5 minutes as needed up to a maximum total dose of 3 mg. Clinical practice guidelines do not include atropine due to unlikely therapeutic benefit in pulseless electrical activity (PEA) or asystole. Previously, atropine could be given via the intraosseous route when IV access was not available.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


0.01 to 0.03 mg/kg/dose IV. Atropine is not included in the PALS algorithm for cardiac arrest and is no longer routinely recommended due to unlikely therapeutic benefit in PEA or asystole. The previous PALS dosage recommendation was 0.02 mg/kg/dose IV (minimum dose of 0.1 mg; Max: 0.5 mg) with a second dose administered if indicated. The same dosage may be given via the intraosseous route when IV access is not available. Do not interrupt CPR to administer drug therapy. Cardiac arrest in children is uncommon and usually results from progressive respiratory failure or shock (e.g., asphyxial arrest) rather than from cardiac etiology.


Neonates


0.01 to 0.03 mg/kg/dose IV. Atropine is not included in the PALS algorithm for cardiac arrest and is no longer routinely recommended due to unlikely therapeutic benefit in PEA or asystole. The previous PALS dosage recommendation was 0.02 mg/kg/dose IV with a second dose administered if indicated. When using atropine, PALS recommends a minimum single dose of 0.1 mg, however, some feel this dose may be excessive in very small neonates since the total dosage would be greater than 0.02 mg/kg. The same dosage may be given via the intraosseous route when IV access is not available. Do not interrupt CPR to administer drug therapy.


Endotracheal Dosage
Adults


1 to 2 mg ET (diluted in no more than 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or Sterile Water for Injection). Clinical practice guidelines do not include atropine due to unlikely therapeutic benefit in pulseless electrical activity (PEA) or asystole.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


Atropine is not included in the PALS algorithm for cardiac arrest and is no longer routinely recommended due to unlikely therapeutic benefit in PEA or asystole. The previous PALS dosage recommendation was 0.04 to 0.06 mg/kg/dose for ET administration with a second dose administered if indicated. Flush the ET tube with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection (5 mL or more) and follow with 5 ventilations. Do not interrupt CPR to administer drug therapy.


Neonates


Atropine is not included in the PALS algorithm for cardiac arrest and is no longer routinely recommended due to unlikely therapeutic benefit in PEA or asystole. The previous PALS dosage recommendation was 0.04 to 0.06 mg/kg/dose for ET administration with a second dose administered if indicated. Flush the ET tube with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection (1 to 5 mL) and follow with 5 ventilations. Do not interrupt CPR to administer drug therapy.


For preoperative use to decrease secretions (i.e., aspiration prophylaxis), as well as block cardiovagal reflexes and/or succinylcholine-induced arrhythmias, during surgery

Oral Dosage
Adults


2 mg PO 30 to 60 minutes prior to anesthesia.


Intravenous, Intramuscular, or Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


0.2 to 1 mg (the usual dose is 0.4 mg) IV, IM, or subcutaneous 30 to 60 minutes prior to anesthesia.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


0.01 to 0.02 mg/kg/dose IV or IM (minimum dose: 0.1 mg; Max: 1 mg) before administration of sedative/anesthetic and paralytic agents. According to the FDA-approved product labeling, dose may also be given subcutaneously 30 minutes before surgery. Various fixed dosing schedules are also available. The following is one example: 0.1 mg for patient weight 3.2 to 7 kg; 0.15 mg for weight 8 to 11 kg; 0.2 mg for weight 11 to 18 kg; 0.3 mg for weight 18 to 29 kg; and 0.4 mg for weight 30 to 41 kg.


Neonates


0.02 mg/kg/dose IV, IM, or subcutaneous before administration of sedative/anesthetic and paralytic agents. Use of 0.1 mg in neonates will result in dosages greater than 0.02 mg/kg; there is no documented minimum dosage in this age group.


For the treatment of cholinergic crisis (e.g., chemical nerve agent or carbamate or organophosphate insecticide toxicity)

Intravenous, Intramuscular, or Intraosseous† dosage (using parenteral solution; NOT autoinjector)
Adults


1 to 2 mg IV or IM initially; repeat every 20 to 30 minutes as needed until symptoms dissipate. IV route is preferred. In severe cases, the initial dose can be as large as 2 to 6 mg administered IV. Repeat doses of 2 to 6 mg can be administered IV or IM every 5 to 60 minutes. Up to 50 mg of atropine may be necessary in the first 24 hours. Therapy may be necessary for 48 hours or more, but lower doses administered orally may suffice after the acute phase has been stabilized.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


0.05 to 0.1 mg/kg/dose IV, IM, or IO every 5 to 15 minutes as needed until symptoms dissipate. IV route is preferred. Repeat doses based on recurrence of symptoms for 2 to 12 hours or longer depending on severity of poisoning. When symptoms are stable for 6 hours or more, the dosing may be decreased. In severely poisoned patients, the dose may need to be more than 2 times suggested dose. The dosing interval may be decreased, or continuous IV infusion may be necessary with high atropine requirements. If continuous infusion is required to maintain atropinization, begin with 10% to 20% of the total loading dose administered hourly.


Neonates


0.05 to 0.1 mg/kg/dose IV, IM, or IO every 5 to 15 minutes as needed until symptoms dissipate. IV route is preferred. Repeat doses based on recurrence of symptoms for 2 to 12 hours or longer depending on severity of poisoning. When symptoms are stable for 6 hours or more, the dosing may be decreased. In severely poisoned patients, the dose may need to be more than 2 times suggested dose. The dosing interval may be decreased, or continuous IV infusion may be necessary with high atropine requirements. If continuous infusion is required to maintain atropinization, begin with 10% to 20% of the total loading dose administered hourly.


Intramuscular dosage (autoinjector only)
Adults


2 mg/dose IM as soon as symptoms of poisoning appear (usually tearing, excess saliva, wheezing, drowsiness, muscle twitching). Give 1 dose for known or suspected poisoning with 2 or more mild symptoms (e.g., blurred vision, miosis, watery eyes, runny nose, increased salivation, chest tightness or difficulty breathing, tremors, muscle twitching, nausea or vomiting, unexplained wheezing or coughing, acute stomach cramping, tachycardia, or bradycardia). Give 2 additional doses in rapid succession 10 to 15 minutes after giving the first injection if any severe symptom appears (e.g., confusion, severe breathing difficulties, severe lung secretions, severe muscle twitching and general weakness, involuntary urination and defecation, seizures, unconsciousness). Give 3 doses in rapid succession to any victim found unconscious or presenting with severe symptoms. Anticonvulsants and pralidoxime may be administered concurrently.


Children and Adolescents weighing more than 41 kg


2 mg/dose IM as soon as symptoms of poisoning appear (usually tearing, excess saliva, wheezing, drowsiness, muscle twitching). Give 1 dose for known or suspected poisoning with 2 or more mild symptoms (e.g., blurred vision, miosis, watery eyes, runny nose, increased salivation, chest tightness or difficulty breathing, tremors, muscle twitching, nausea or vomiting, unexplained wheezing or coughing, acute stomach cramping, tachycardia, or bradycardia). Give 2 additional doses in rapid succession 10 to 15 minutes after giving the first injection if any severe symptom appears (e.g., confusion, severe breathing difficulties, severe lung secretions, severe muscle twitching and general weakness, involuntary urination and defecation, seizures, unconsciousness). Give 3 doses in rapid succession to any victim found unconscious or presenting with severe symptoms. Anticonvulsants and pralidoxime may be administered concurrently.


Children weighing 18 to 41 kg


1 mg/dose IM as soon as symptoms of poisoning appear (usually tearing, excess saliva, wheezing, drowsiness, muscle twitching). Give 1 dose for known or suspected poisoning with 2 or more mild symptoms (e.g., blurred vision, miosis, watery eyes, runny nose, increased salivation, chest tightness or difficulty breathing, tremors, muscle twitching, nausea or vomiting, unexplained wheezing or coughing, acute stomach cramping, tachycardia, or bradycardia). Give 2 additional doses in rapid succession 10 minutes after giving the first injection if any severe symptom appears (e.g., confusion, severe breathing difficulties, severe lung secretions, severe muscle twitching and general weakness, involuntary urination and defecation, seizures, unconsciousness). Give 3 doses in rapid succession to any victim found unconscious or presenting with severe symptoms. Anticonvulsants and pralidoxime may be administered concurrently.


Infants and Children weighing 7 to 18 kg


0.5 mg/dose IM as soon as symptoms of poisoning appear (usually tearing, excess saliva, wheezing, drowsiness, muscle floppiness). Give 1 dose for known or suspected poisoning with 2 or more mild symptoms (e.g., blurred vision, miosis, watery eyes, runny nose, increased salivation, chest tightness or difficulty breathing, tremors, muscle twitching, nausea or vomiting, unexplained wheezing or coughing, acute stomach cramping, tachycardia, or bradycardia). Give 2 additional doses in rapid succession 10 minutes after giving the first injection if any severe symptom appears (e.g., confusion, severe breathing difficulties, severe lung secretions, severe muscle twitching and general weakness, involuntary urination and defecation, seizures, unconsciousness). Give 3 doses in rapid succession to any victim found unconscious or presenting with severe symptoms. Anticonvulsants and pralidoxime may be administered concurrently.


Neonates and Infants weighing less than 7 kg


0.25 mg/dose IM as soon as symptoms of poisoning appear (usually tearing, excess saliva, wheezing, drowsiness, muscle floppiness). Give 1 dose for known or suspected poisoning with 2 or more mild symptoms (e.g., blurred vision, miosis, watery eyes, runny nose, increased salivation, chest tightness or difficulty breathing, tremors, muscle twitching, nausea or vomiting, unexplained wheezing or coughing, acute stomach cramping, tachycardia, or bradycardia). Give 2 additional doses in rapid succession 10 minutes after giving the first injection if any severe symptom appears (e.g., confusion, severe breathing difficulties, severe lung secretions, severe muscle twitching and general weakness, involuntary urination and defecation, seizures, unconsciousness). Give 3 doses in rapid succession to any victim found unconscious or presenting with severe symptoms. Anticonvulsants and pralidoxime may be administered concurrently.


For cholinesterase inhibitor-induced muscarinic effects prophylaxis when anticholinesterase agents (i.e., neostigmine, physostigmine, pyridostigmine) are used to reverse the neuromuscular blockade produced by curariform agents

Intravenous Dosage
Adults


0.6 to 1.2 mg IV for each 0.5 to 2.5 mg of neostigmine or 10 to 20 mg of pyridostigmine; atropine is given a few minutes before (especially if bradycardia is present) or concurrently (in a separate syringe) with the cholinesterase inhibitor.


Children


0.05 mg/kg/dose IV (up to initial adult dose: 2 to 5 mg). Repeat/adjust dose every 10 to 20 minutes as needed; double the dose if inadequate response/atropinization to initial dose.


For adjunctive treatment of GI disorders caused by cholinergic stimulation, such as duodenal ulcer, irritable bowel syndrome, or GI hypermotility and diarrhea

Oral Dosage
Adults


0.3 to 1.2 mg PO every 4 to 6 hours.


Children


0.01 mg/kg or 0.3 mg/m2, up to 0.4 mg, PO every 4 to 6 hours.


For mydriasis induction or cycloplegia induction

Ophthalmic Dosage (Ophthalmic solution only)
Adults


1 drop of 1% solution topically to the cul-de-sac of the conjunctiva in 1 or both eyes as indicated, 40 minutes before the intended maximal dilation time. Dose may be repeated up to twice daily as needed.


Children and Adolescents 3 years and older


1 drop of 1% solution topically to the cul-de-sac of the conjunctiva in 1 or both eyes as indicated, 40 minutes before the intended maximal dilation time. Dose may be repeated up to twice daily as needed. In one study for cycloplegic refraction in strabismic children, 1 drop 3-times daily for 3 days administered prior to the procedure was compared to 2 drops given 5 minutes apart; children younger than 2.5 years received a 0.5% concentration and children 2.5 years or older received 1% concentration. The differences in cycloplegic refraction were not significant between the 2 groups.


Infants and Children 3 months up to 3 years


1 drop of 1% solution topically to the cul-de-sac of the conjunctiva in 1 or both eyes as indicated, 40 minutes before the intended maximal dilation time. In one study for cycloplegic refraction in strabismic children, 1 drop 3-times daily for 3 days administered prior to the procedure was compared to 2 drops given 5 minutes apart; children younger than 2.5 years received a 0.5% concentration and children 2.5 years or older received 1% concentration. The differences in cycloplegic refraction were not significant between the 2 groups.


Ophthalmic Dosage (Ophthalmic ointment only)
Adults


Apply a small amount of the ointment in the conjunctival sac 1- to 2-times per day; take care to avoid overdosage.


Infants 3 months and older, Children, and Adolescents


Apply a small amount of the ointment in the conjunctival sac 1- to 2-times per day; take care to avoid overdosage.


For the treatment of iritis or uveitis

Ophthalmic Dosage (1% solution)
Adults


1 to 2 drops into affected eye(s) up to 4 times daily.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents 3 months to 17 years


1 to 2 drops into affected eye(s) up to 2 times daily.


Ophthalmic Dosage (1% ointment)
Adults


Apply a small amount into conjunctival sac of affected eye(s) 1 to 2 times daily.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents 3 months to 17 years


Apply a small amount into conjunctival sac of affected eye(s) 1 to 2 times daily.


For penalization of the healthy eye in the treatment of amblyopia

Ophthalmic Dosage
Adults


1 drop of 1% solution topically to the cul-de-sac of the conjunctiva, 40 minutes before the intended maximal dilation time. Dose may be repeated up to twice daily as needed.


Children and Adolescents 3 years and older


1 drop of 1% solution topically to the cul-de-sac of the conjunctiva, 40 minutes before the intended maximal dilation time. Dose may be repeated up to twice daily as needed. 1 drop of 1% solution instilled in the unaffected eye once daily results comparable improvement in visual acuity to patching. In a clinical trial, 419 children ages 3 to 7 years with moderate amblyopia (i.e., visual acuity 20/40 to 20/100) were randomly assigned to receive patching for a minimum of 6 hours daily or 1 drop of atropine 1% ophthalmic solution in the unaffected eye every day. Although more rapid improvement was noted initially in the patching group, the difference was clinically insignificant after 6 months (about one-third of a line). After the initial 6 months of treatment, investigators were permitted to prescribe any type of amblyopia therapy. In 363 patients, visual acuity continued to be improved when evaluated 2 years after initial randomization; the authors concluded that use of atropine or patching for 6 months followed by regular care did not lend to differences in visual acuity 2 years later. Additionally, in a subgroup analysis of 176 children who were evaluated at age 10 years, improvement of amblyopia was maintained in both groups, although approximately half experienced mild residual amblyopia (i.e., visual acuity less than 20/25).


For management of early-onset irinotecan-induced diarrhea†

Intravenous Dosage
Adults


Unless clinically contraindicated, a dose of 0.25 to 1 mg IV should be considered for patients experiencing early-onset (e.g., occurring within 24 hours following irinotecan administration) diarrhea, diaphoresis, or abdominal cramps.


For the prevention of bradycardia and reduction of oral secretions during rapid-sequence intubation†

Intravenous Dosage
Infants, Children, and Adolescents


0.02 mg/kg/dose IV (with no minimum dose) given 1 to 2 minutes prior to intubation. Max: 0.5 mg/dose. Available evidence does not support routine use of atropine as a premedicant for emergency intubation in critically ill children; however, it may be considered when there is a high risk of bradycardia.


Neonates


0.02 mg/kg/dose IV.


For the treatment of symptomatic bradycardia associated with beta-blocker toxicity† or calcium-channel blocker toxicity†

Intravenous dosage
Adults


0.5 to 1 mg IV every 3 to 5 minutes as needed up to 3 mg. Atropine is unlikely to have a significant or persisting effect on heart rate; anticipate quickly moving on to other resuscitation measures.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


0.02 mg/kg/dose IV (minimum dose: 0.1 mg); may repeat once. Max: 0.5 mg/dose. Atropine is unlikely to have a significant or persisting effect on heart rate; anticipate quickly moving on to other resuscitation measures.


For use in coronary artery disease diagnosis† (i.e., stress echocardiography†)

Intravenous dosage
Adults


0.25 to 0.5 mg IV every 1 minute as needed. Use 0.25 mg dosage increments in patients with small physique and in those close to target heart rate. Max total dose: 2 mg; limit total dose to 1 mg in patients with prior neuropsychiatric symptoms or BMI less than 24 kg/m2. Add atropine when target heart rate cannot be achieved with dobutamine alone. The addition of atropine at 20 or 30 mcg/kg/minute of dobutamine (compared to 40 mcg/kg/minute) achieves target heart rate earlier with fewer adverse effects and shortens testing time. 


Geriatric


0.25 to 0.5 mg IV every 1 minute as needed. Use 0.25 mg dosage increments in patients with small physique and in those close to target heart rate. Max total dose: 1 mg. Add atropine when target heart rate cannot be achieved with dobutamine alone. The addition of atropine at 20 or 30 mcg/kg/minute of dobutamine (compared to 40 mcg/kg/minute) achieves target heart rate earlier with fewer adverse effects and shortened testing time.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Medical supervision is necessary in individuals who have had previous anaphylactic reactions to atropine and require treatment with parenteral atropine for organophosphorus or nerve agent poisoning. Excessive use of atropine ophthalmic ointment may produce systemic symptoms of atropine poisoning in individuals with a previous history of susceptibility to belladonna alkaloids.

brain injury, Down syndrome, spastic paralysis


Individuals with brain injury, Down syndrome, or spastic paralysis are particularly susceptible to central nervous system disturbances, cardiopulmonary, and gastrointestinal toxicity from systemic absorption of atropine.


closed-angle glaucoma, increased risk for angle-closure glaucoma, primary glaucoma


Atropine ophthalmic ointment is contraindicated in individuals with primary glaucoma or at increased risk for angle-closure glaucoma. To avoid inducing closed-angle glaucoma, an estimation of the depth of the anterior chamber angle should be made. Use parenteral atropine with caution in individuals with severe closed-angle glaucoma or those at risk for acute glaucoma. Atropine may precipitate acute glaucoma. Monitor for signs and symptoms of intraocular pressure as appropriate.


cardiovascular disease


Use parenteral atropine with caution in individuals with known cardiovascular disease or cardiac conduction problems. In individuals with a recent myocardial infarction and/or severe coronary artery disease, there is a possibility that atropine-induced tachycardia may cause ischemia, extend or initiate myocardial infarcts, and stimulate ventricular ectopy and fibrillation. When the recurrent use of atropine is essential in individuals with coronary artery disease, limit the total dose to 2 to 3 mg (maximum 0.03 to 0.04 mg/kg) to avoid the detrimental effects of atropine-induced tachycardia on myocardial oxygen demand.


heart transplant


Do not use atropine to treat sinus bradycardia in individuals who have undergone heart transplant without evidence for autonomic reinnervation. Atropine is ineffective for treatment of post-heart transplant sinus node dysfunction because of denervation. A small uncontrolled study documented paradoxical slowing of the heart rate and high-degree AV block when atropine was administered after cardiac transplantation.


chronic lung disease


Atropine may cause thickening of bronchial secretions and formation of dangerous viscid plugs in individuals with chronic lung disease. Monitor respiratory status in individuals with chronic lung disease after administration of parenteral atropine.


pyloric stenosis


Monitor individuals with pyloric stenosis for gastrointestinal symptoms after administration of parenteral atropine. Atropine may cause complete pyloric obstruction in individuals with partial pyloric stenosis.


bladder obstruction, prostatic hypertrophy


Use parenteral atropine with caution in individuals with prostatic hypertrophy or clinically significant bladder obstruction. Atropine may cause urinary retention.


conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature


Avoid conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature (e.g., excessive exercise, heat exposure) after parenteral atropine administration, when feasible. Atropine may suppress sweat gland activity, which, in a warm environment or with excessive exercise, can lead to hyperthermia and heat injury.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Advise individuals to avoid driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration while pupils are dilated after administration of ophthalmic atropine. Individuals may experience sensitivity to light and should protect their eyes in bright illumination during dilation.


adolescents, children, history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use, infants, neonates


Atropine ophthalmic ointment is contraindicated in pediatric individuals who have a history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use of atropine. Use atropine ophthalmic ointment with extreme caution in neonates, infants, children, and adolescents. Excessive use of atropine ophthalmic ointment in pediatric individuals may produce systemic symptoms of atropine poisoning. Due to the potential for systemic absorption, the use of atropine ophthalmic solution in children younger than 3 months is not recommended; limit use of atropine ophthalmic solution in children younger than 3 years to no more than 1 drop per eye per day. Central nervous system adverse events due to atropine are often seen earlier and at lower doses in pediatric individuals compared to adults. Overheating (atropine fever) caused by suppression of sweat gland activity may be more pronounced in infants and small children.


geriatric


Geriatric adults may be more susceptible to the effects of atropine and may require less frequent doses after the initial parenteral atropine dose. In general, use cautious dose selection for parenteral atropine for geriatric adults, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Most of the side effects of atropine are directly related to its antimuscarinic action; constipation and difficulty in micturition may occur in older adults. According to the Beers Criteria, the use of atropine as an antispasmodic agent is considered a potentially inappropriate medication (PIM) in geriatric adults and should be avoided due to strong anticholinergic activity and uncertain effectiveness. Avoid drugs with strong anticholinergic properties in geriatric adults with the following conditions due to the potential for symptom exacerbation or adverse effects: dementia/cognitive impairment (adverse CNS effects), delirium/high risk of delirium (new-onset or worsening delirium), or lower urinary tract symptoms/benign prostatic hyperplasia in men (urinary retention or hesitancy). The Beers criteria do not prevent the use of atropine for appropriate emergent/critical indications or palliative care.


pregnancy


Human data on injectable atropine use during pregnancy are limited and do not allow a definitive assessment of risk for major congenital malformations, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. No animal reproductive or developmental toxicity studies have been conducted. Untreated severe or life-threatening muscarinic toxicity poses significant risk to both the pregnant person and fetus; therefore, atropine should not be withheld when clinically indicated. Atropine crosses the placenta. Available observational data do not suggest a clear increase in congenital malformations. In cohort data including 401 first-trimester and 797 second- or third-trimester exposures, atropine was not associated with an increased risk of malformations. In a surveillance study of 381 first-trimester exposures, 18 major birth defects were observed vs. 16 expected, with no consistent pattern identified. Another surveillance study of 50 first-trimester exposures also found no increased risk. These studies are limited by lack of control for dose, timing of exposure, underlying maternal conditions, and concomitant medications. Atropine is systemically absorbed after ophthalmic administration. Use of topical atropine during pregnancy should be based on a risk-benefit assessment.


breast-feeding


Use atropine with caution during breast-feeding. Trace amounts have been detected in human milk; however, data are lacking on milk concentrations, effects on the breastfed child, and effects on milk production. The elimination half-life of atropine is prolonged in children younger than 2 years, which may increase the risk of accumulation. To reduce infant exposure after administration of injectable atropine, consider interrupting breast-feeding and discarding expressed milk for 24 hours before resuming breast-feeding.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Human data on injectable atropine use during pregnancy are limited and do not allow a definitive assessment of risk for major congenital malformations, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. No animal reproductive or developmental toxicity studies have been conducted. Untreated severe or life-threatening muscarinic toxicity poses significant risk to both the pregnant person and fetus; therefore, atropine should not be withheld when clinically indicated. Atropine crosses the placenta. Available observational data do not suggest a clear increase in congenital malformations. In cohort data including 401 first-trimester and 797 second- or third-trimester exposures, atropine was not associated with an increased risk of malformations. In a surveillance study of 381 first-trimester exposures, 18 major birth defects were observed vs. 16 expected, with no consistent pattern identified. Another surveillance study of 50 first-trimester exposures also found no increased risk. These studies are limited by lack of control for dose, timing of exposure, underlying maternal conditions, and concomitant medications. Atropine is systemically absorbed after ophthalmic administration. Use of topical atropine during pregnancy should be based on a risk-benefit assessment.


Interactions

Abatacept: (Minor) Because abatacept has been shown to potentiate the onset of respiratory infections, concomitant use of drugs that decrease mucociliary clearance should be used cautiously. Anticholinergics, such as atropine, have been shown to be capable of depressing the mucociliary transport system.
AbobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when dihydrocodeine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of dihydrocodeine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of oxycodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Acetylcholine Chloride: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Aclidinium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when alfentanil is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of alfentanil and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Alosetron: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Amantadine: (Major) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity. Antimuscarinics, such as atropine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Depending on the specific agent, additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when amoxapine is used concomitantly with other anticholinergic agents. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive CNS effects are also possible when these drugs are combined with amoxapine.
Antacids: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of atropine may be enhanced when combined with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of oxycodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Atropine and atomoxetine should be combined cautiously in patients with known cardiac disease. Atropine or scopolamine may alter the heart rate; the predominant clinical effect is sinus tachycardia. An additive effect on heart rate may occur as atomoxetine may elevate heart rate as well as blood pressure.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Diphenoxylate is a synthetic opiate derivative that appears to exert its effect locally and centrally on the smooth mucle cells of the GI tract to inhibit GI motility and slow excess GI propulsion. Atropine is commonly added in small amounts to these formulas for diarrhea as a deterrant to diphenoxylate abuse. However, therapeutic doses of systemic atropine may cause additive side effects. In some cases, constipation might occur, and effects on the CNS or bladder function may also be additive.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when opium is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of opium and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when benzhydrocodone is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of benzhydrocodone and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Bethanechol: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Botulinum Toxins: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of buprenorphine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of buprenorphine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
buPROPion: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of atropine may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including bupropion. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of atropine may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including bupropion. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when butorphanol is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of butorphanol and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Calcium Carbonate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and atropine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of tramadol and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and atropine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Cevimeline: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including chlorpromazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Cholinergic agonists: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Atropine is an anticholinergic drug and thus can antagonize the action of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, such as cisapride. Use this combination with caution.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
cloZAPine: (Major) Avoid co-prescribing clozapine with other anticholinergic medicines that can cause gastrointestinal hypomotility, due to a potential to increase serious constipation, ileus, and other potentially serious bowel conditions that may result in hospitalization. Clozapine exhibits potent anticholinergic effects. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when clozapine is used concomitantly with anticholinergic agents. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the anticholinergic agent used.
Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant promethazine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of codeine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant promethazine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) Colesevelam may decrease the absorption of atropine if coadministered. To minimize potential for interactions, consider administering atropine at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after colesevelam; monitor drug response and/or serum drug concentrations.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Crofelemer: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between crofelemer and antimuscarinics are theoretically possible. Crofelemer does not affect GI motility mechanisms, but does have antidiarrheal effects. Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility, such as antimuscarinics, may be at greater risk for serious complications from crofelemer, such as constipation with chronic use. Use caution and monitor GI symptoms during coadministration.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cyclobenzaprine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dasiglucagon: (Major) The concomitant use of intravenous glucagon and anticholinergics increases the risk of gastrointestinal adverse reactions due to additive effects on inhibition of gastrointestinal motility. Concomitant use is not recommended.
DaxibotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of atropine may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including bupropion. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of quinidine may be significant and may be enhanced when combined with antimuscarinics.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Anticholinergics, because of their ability to cause tachycardia, can antagonize the beneficial actions of digoxin in atrial fibrillation/flutter. Routine therapeutic monitoring should be continued when an antimuscarinic agent is prescribed with digoxin until the effects of combined use are known.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Diphenoxylate is a synthetic opiate derivative that appears to exert its effect locally and centrally on the smooth mucle cells of the GI tract to inhibit GI motility and slow excess GI propulsion. Atropine is commonly added in small amounts to these formulas for diarrhea as a deterrant to diphenoxylate abuse. However, therapeutic doses of systemic atropine may cause additive side effects. In some cases, constipation might occur, and effects on the CNS or bladder function may also be additive.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) In addition to its electrophysiologic effects, disopyramide exhibits clinically significant anticholinergic properties. These can be additive with other anticholinergics. Clinicians should be aware that urinary retention, particularly in males, and aggravation of glaucoma are realistic possibilities of using disopyramide with other anticholinergic agents.
Donepezil: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of donepezil, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy. (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of donepezil, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with anticholinergics is necessary. Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with anticholinergics may result in additive drowsiness, hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity.
Eluxadoline: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Carefully monitor blood pressure in patients who have received both ephedrine and atropine; atropine augments the pressor effect of ephedrine.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Carefully monitor blood pressure in patients who have received both ephedrine and atropine; atropine augments the pressor effect of ephedrine.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and atropine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and atropine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of fentanyl and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including fluphenazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of atropine and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Galantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of both medications during concomitant use. Gepotidacin is a cholinesterase inhibitor. Anticholinergic medications and cholinesterase inhibitors antagonize each other.
Glucagon: (Major) The concomitant use of intravenous glucagon and anticholinergics increases the risk of gastrointestinal adverse reactions due to additive effects on inhibition of gastrointestinal motility. Concomitant use is not recommended.
Glycopyrronium: (Moderate) Although glycopyrronium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after topical application, there is the potential for glycopyrronium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of glycopyrronium with other anticholinergic medications.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when hydromorphone is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of hydromorphone and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as atropine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
IncobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Ipratropium: (Moderate) Although ipratropium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other antimuscarinic or anticholinergic medications. Per the manufacturer, avoid coadministration.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Although ipratropium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other antimuscarinic or anticholinergic medications. Per the manufacturer, avoid coadministration.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Antimuscarinics can raise intragastric pH. This effect may decrease the oral bioavailability of itraconazole; antimuscarinics should be used cautiously in patients receiving itraconazole.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and atropine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and atropine. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and atropine may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when levorphanol is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of levorphanol and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Linaclotide: (Moderate) Anticholinergics can promote constipation and pharmacodynamically oppose the action of drugs used for the treatment of constipation or constipation-associated irritable bowel syndrome, such as linaclotide.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and atropine. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Loxapine has anticholinergic activity. The concomitant use of loxapine and other anticholinergic drugs can increase the risk of anticholinergic adverse reactions including exacerbation of glaucoma, constipation, and urinary retention. Depending on the agent used, additive drowsiness/dizziness may also occur.
Lubiprostone: (Moderate) Antimuscarinic drugs can promote constipation and pharmacodynamically oppose the action of drugs used for the treatment of constipation, such as lubiprostone. The clinical significance of these potential interactions is uncertain.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and atropine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Antipsychotic agents may disrupt core temperature regulation; therefore, caution is recommended during concurrent use of lurasidone and medications with anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Concurrent use of lurasidone and medications with anticholinergic activity may contribute to heat-related disorders. Monitor patients for heat intolerance, decreased sweating, or increased body temperature if lurasidone is used with antimuscarinics.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Memantine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when meperidine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of meperidine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when methadone is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of methadone and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Drugs with significant antimuscarinic activity, such as anticholinergics and antimuscarinics, may slow GI motility and thus may reduce the prokinetic actions of metoclopramide. Monitor patients for an increase in gastrointestinal complaints, such as reflux or constipation. Additive drowsiness may occur as well. The clinical significance is uncertain.
metOLazone: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of mirtazapine and atropine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Molindone: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Morphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of morphine and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when nalbuphine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of nalbuphine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Neostigmine: (Major) Coadministration of atropine and neostigmine may produce a mutually antagonistic effect.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Coadministration of atropine and neostigmine may produce a mutually antagonistic effect.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Pharmacologically, sufficient doses of atropine block various types of vagal reflex bradycardia. Because norepinephrine causes vagal reflex bradycardia, the concomitant use of atropine and norepinephrine may increase the pressor effect of norepinephrine.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when olanzapine and anticholinergics are used concomitantly; use with caution. Use of olanzapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic activity. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the anticholinergic agent used.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when olanzapine and anticholinergics are used concomitantly; use with caution. Use of olanzapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic activity. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the anticholinergic agent used.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when olanzapine and anticholinergics are used concomitantly; use with caution. Use of olanzapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic activity. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the anticholinergic agent used.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oliceridine with atropine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with atropine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Also monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when oliceridine is used concomitantly with atropine. The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
OnabotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of atropine may be enhanced when combined with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of oxycodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when oxymorphone is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of oxymorphone and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant anticholinergic medication and paroxetine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when pentazocine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of pentazocine and anticholinergic medications may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including perphenazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including perphenazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect.
PHYSostigmine: (Major) Coadministration of atropine and physostigmine may produce a mutually antagonistic effect.
Pilocarpine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as atropine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as atropine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Pralidoxime: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Pramlintide: (Major) Pramlintide therapy should not be considered in patients taking medications that alter gastric motility, such as anticholinergics. Pramlintide slows gastric emptying and the rate of nutrient delivery to the small intestine. Medications that have depressive effects on GI could potentiate the actions of pramlintide.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of atropine and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Procainamide: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of procainamide may be significant and may be enhanced when combined with anticholinergics. Anticholinergic agents administered concurrently with procainamide may produce additive antivagal effects on AV nodal conduction, although this is not as well documented for procainamide as for quinidine.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including prochlorperazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant promethazine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant promethazine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by sympathomimetic agents, such as phenylephrine, and increases its pressor effect. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant promethazine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
pyRIDostigmine: (Major) Coadministration of atropine and pyridostigmine bromide may produce a mutually antagonistic effect.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant quetiapine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of quinidine may be significant and may be enhanced when combined with antimuscarinics.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) MAOIs exhibit secondary anticholinergic actions. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when MAOIs are used concomitantly with antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive CNS effects are also possible when many of these drugs are combined with MAOIs.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when remifentanil is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of remifentanil and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Revefenacin: (Moderate) Although revefenacin is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other antimuscarinics. Avoid concomitant administration with other anticholinergic and antimucarinic medications.
RimabotulinumtoxinB: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of rivastigmine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Secretin: (Major) Discontinue anticholinergic medications at least 5 half-lives before performing a secretin stimulation test. Anticholinergics may cause a hyporesponse to secretin stimulation testing and interfere with the test's diagnostic accuracy.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by anticholinergics. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as atropine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like solifenacin are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. Blurred vision and dry mouth would be common effects. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and atropine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when sufentanil is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of sufentanil and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Tapentadol should be used cautiously with anticholinergic medications since additive depressive effects on GI motility or bladder function may occur. Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Opiate analgesics combined with antimuscarinics can cause severe constipation or paralytic ileus, especially with chronic use. Additive CNS effects like drowsiness or dizziness may also occur.
Tegaserod: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Tenapanor: (Moderate) Anticholinergics can promote constipation and pharmacodynamically oppose the action of drugs used for the treatment of constipation or constipation-associated irritable bowel syndrome, such as tenapanor.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties like thioridazine are used concomitantly with anticholinergic agents. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the interacting agent.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Anticholinergics may have additive effects with thiothixene, an antipsychotic with the potential for anticholinergic activity. Monitor for anticholinergic-related adverse effects such as xerostomia, blurred vision, constipation, and urinary retention during concurrent use.
Tiotropium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when tolterodine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of tramadol and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of tramadol and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including trifluoperazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Umeclidinium: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Vibegron: (Moderate) Vibegron should be administered with caution in patients taking anticholinergics because of potential for an increased risk of urinary retention. Monitor for symptoms of urinary difficulties or urinary retention. Patients may note constipation or dry mouth with use of these drugs together.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Zonisamide use is associated with case reports of decreased sweating, hyperthermia, heat intolerance, or heat stroke and should be used with caution in combination with other drugs that may also predispose patients to heat-related disorders like anticholinergics.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.


Adverse Reaction
hypersalivation, laryngitis, laryngospasm, nasal dryness, oral ulceration, xerostomia


Dry mouth and nasal dryness are common and, in some cases, desired reactions to atropine. Xerostomia (dry mouth) is caused by inhibition of acetylcholine activity in the salivary glands. Saliva substitutes may be useful in patients who suffer from this adverse effect. Rarely hypersalivation, laryngitis, laryngospasm, and oral ulceration have also been reported. Xerostomia was reported in 35% of children accidentally receiving high doses of atropine (dose range: 0.045 to 0.175 mg/kg).


blepharitis, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, cycloplegia, keratoconjunctivitis, lacrimation, mydriasis, ocular irritation, photophobia, visual impairment, xerophthalmia


Blurred vision is a common adverse reaction to atropine, regardless of administration route. After ophthalmic administration, atropine-induced cycloplegia and mydriasis are pronounced. Other ocular side effects include (incidences not reported): blepharitis, visual impairment (e.g., decreased visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and accommodation), strabismus, heterophoria, cyclophoria, acute angle closure glaucoma, blindness, ocular irritation, photophobia and pupils poorly reactive to light, conjunctivitis, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, crusting of eyelids, increased lacrimation or tearing, and xerophthalmia. Mydriasis was reported in 43% of children accidentally receiving high doses of atropine (dose range: 0.05 to 0.175 mg/kg).


abdominal pain, constipation, dysphagia, ileus, nausea, vomiting


Atropine antagonizes the actions of acetylcholine on gastrointestinal smooth muscle, thus causing constipation. Other noted GI adverse effects include abdominal pain and distention, dysphagia, nausea, vomiting, decreased food absorption, delayed gastric emptying, decreased bowel sounds, and paralytic ileus.


asystole, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia, ST-T wave changes, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia


Atropine has been reported to lead to a wide array of cardiac conduction abnormalities. In doses of 0.4 to 0.6 mg, atropine causes slight sinus bradycardia due to vagal stimulation. In larger doses (1 to 2 mg), it causes sinus tachycardia secondary to inhibition of vagal control of the SA node in the heart. Other cardiovascular adverse reactions listed by the manufacturer (incidence not reported) include palpitations, asystole, atrial arrhythmias (i.e., atrial fibrillation, atrial ectopic beats), supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), junctional tachycardia, ventricular arrhythmias [i.e., ventricular flutter, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular extrasystole, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs)], bigeminal beats, trigeminal beats, nodal extrasystole, supraventricular extrasystole, QT prolongation, ST-T wave changes, intermittent nodal rhythm (no P wave), prolonged P wave, shortened PR segment, R on T phenomenon, shortened RT duration, widening and flattening of QRS complex, flattening of T wave, repolarization abnormalities, prolongation of sinus node recovery time, retrograde conduction, transient atrioventricular (AV) dissociation, cardiac dilation, left ventricular failure, myocardial infarction, hypertension, hypotension, labile blood pressure, weak peripheral pulse. Sinus tachycardia was reported in 39% (n = 91/240) of children with ECGs, who had accidentally received high doses of atropine (dose range: 0.05 to 0.175 mg/kg). Of the 91 children, 24% (n = 22) had severe tachycardia of 160 to 190 beats per minute. No other cardiac abnormalities were noted other than sinus tachycardia. Other than tachycardia, abnormal cardiac conduction would be rare. Excessive doses of atropine can increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias.


pulmonary edema, respiratory arrest, respiratory depression, tachypnea


Respiratory adverse events, although rare, have been reported in association with large doses of atropine; causality cannot be assessed. Pulmonary edema, respiratory arrest, respiratory depression (slow, shallow respirations), labored respirations, inspiratory stridor, subcostal recession, and tachypnea have been noted with atropine use.


atopic dermatitis, cyanosis, maculopapular rash, petechiae, rash


Dermatologic reactions that have been reported with atropine use include atopic dermatitis, erythematous rash, maculopapular rash, macular rash, papular rash, petechiae or petechial rash, scarlatiniform rash, dry warm skin, cold skin, cyanosis, and excess sweating. Causality with atropine has not been established.


urinary incontinence, urinary retention, urinary urgency


Atropine can cause urinary retention secondary to decreased tone and amplitude of contractions of the ureters and bladder. Urinary incontinence (e.g., bed-wetting), urinary urgency, distended urinary bladder, and difficulty in micturition have also been reported in the manufacturers labeling; however, incidence was not reported and causality cannot be made.


angina, anhidrosis, dehydration, fever, flushing, hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, injection site reaction, leukocytosis, syncope, urticaria


Other side effects of atropine therapy include angina, chest pain, dehydration, urticaria, flushing, anhidrosis resulting in heat intolerance, injection site reaction, thirst, tongue chewing, leukocytosis, hyponatremia, hypokalemia, elevated blood urea nitrogen (BUN), elevated and low hemoglobin, elevated erythrocytes, hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, failure to feed, syncope, and fever. Flushing was reported in 20% of children and fever in 4% of children accidentally receiving high doses of atropine (dose range: 0.05 to 0.175 mg/kg). Intense flushing of the face (blush area) and trunk may occur 15 to 20 minutes after parenteral injection of atropine. This is called the 'atropine flush' and is not harmful when it occurs.


anaphylactic shock, Stevens-Johnson syndrome


Although rare, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and anaphylactic shock have been reported with atropine.


agitation, amnesia, anxiety, ataxia, coma, confusion, delirium, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, EEG changes, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, hyperreflexia, hypertonia, hyporeflexia, insomnia, lethargy, mania, paranoia, restlessness, seizures, tremor, vertigo, weakness


Antimuscarinic toxicity manifests clinically as excessive anticholinergic activity, especially cardiovascular and CNS stimulation (e.g., anxiety, insomnia). Other CNS effects can occur such as amnesia, dysarthria, headache, restlessness, ataxia, paralysis, disorientation, hallucinations (visual and aural), depression, delirium, behavior changes, withdrawn behavior, lethargy, somnolence, fatigue, coma, mania, insomnia, dizziness, drowsiness, weakness, paranoia, seizures (generally tonic-clonic), tremor, vertigo, excitement, agitation, confusion, stupor, hyperreflexia, hypertonia, hyporeflexia (diminished tendon reflexes), muscle twitching, opisthotonos, Babinski's reflex/Chaddock's reflex, dysmetria, muscle clonus, feeling of intoxication, difficulty concentrating, and EEG changes. In 1 survey, neurologic abnormalities, including irritability, agitation, confusion, lethargy, and ataxia were reported in 5% of children accidentally receiving high doses of atropine (dose range: 0.05 to 0.175 mg/kg).


impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease


Impotence (erectile dysfunction) and libido decrease have been reported with atropine. These adverse reactions can be attributed to the drugs antimuscarinic mechanism of action.


Description

Atropine is a naturally occurring tertiary amine extracted from belladonna alkaloid that consists of a racemic mixture of both d- and l-hyoscyamine, which differ in their antimuscarinic potencies. Atropine is the prototype antimuscarinic from which other antimuscarinic agents were developed. Atropine counteracts cholinergic-mediated reductions in heart rate, vascular resistance, and blood pressure. It has many applications in clinical medicine, but most commonly is used systemically to treat symptomatic bradycardia and as a preoperative agent to reduce secretions prior to surgery. Atropine is recommended as a first-line therapy for acute symptomatic bradycardia, including atrioventricular block; it is more likely to be useful for atrioventricular block at the atrioventricular nodal level and bradycardia attributable to excess vagal tone. Atropine is also used to produce mydriasis and cycloplegia during ophthalmic examination, and can be used for penalization of the healthy eye in the treatment of amblyopia. It decreases the muscarinic cholinergic adverse reactions associated with organophosphate toxicity (e.g., lacrimation, sweating, breathing problems, bradycardia) and is well known as a useful adjunct in nerve agent and insecticide poisoning.

Mechanism Of Action

Atropine is a competitive inhibitor at autonomic postganglionic cholinergic receptors. These include receptors found in GI and pulmonary smooth muscle, exocrine glands, the heart, and the eye. Atropine does not block the actions of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction. Activity is due primarily to l-hyoscyamine, which possesses all of the antimuscarinic activity, and not d-hyoscyamine, which essentially has no peripheral antimuscarinic activity. The degree of sensitivity of various muscarinic receptors to antimuscarinic agents is dose-dependent. The most sensitive receptors are those of the salivary, bronchial, and sweat glands. Next are the receptors in the eye and heart, followed by the receptors in the GI tract.
 
The principal clinical effects of atropine are a reduction in salivary, bronchial, and sweat gland secretions; mydriasis; cycloplegia; changes in heart rate; contraction of the bladder detrusor muscle and of the GI smooth muscle; decreased gastric secretion; and decreased GI motility. At lower doses, a paradoxical decrease in heart rate occurs, and at higher doses, effects are seen at nicotinic receptors in autonomic ganglia, causing restlessness, hallucinations, disorientation, and delirium. Unlike scopolamine, atropine does not produce CNS depression (drowsiness, euphoria, amnesia, fatigue, decreased REM sleep) at usual therapeutic doses. Also, atropine's antimuscarinic potency is greater in the heart, bronchial, and GI smooth muscle, and is lesser in the iris; ciliary body; and salivary, sweat, and bronchial glands.
 
When applied topically to the eye, atropine blocks muscarinic cholinoceptor activation of the pupillary constrictor muscle, resulting in unopposed sympathetic dilator activity and mydriasis. Atropine also weakens the contraction of the ciliary muscle, or cycloplegia. Cycloplegia causes a loss in the ability to accommodate, such that the eye cannot focus for near vision.
 
The respiratory effects of atropine include reducing the volume of secretions from the nose, mouth, pharynx, and bronchi and relaxing smooth muscles of the bronchi and bronchioles, which decrease airway resistance. Since atropine is a potent bronchodilator, it is especially effective in blocking the acetylcholine-induced stimulation of guanyl cyclase, which is responsible for producing cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), a mediator of bronchoconstriction released from mast cells. These actions of atropine are useful, but controversial, in the treatment of antigen-, methacholine-, and exercise-induced bronchospasm in asthmatic patients.

Pharmacokinetics

Atropine is administered via oral, parenteral, endotracheal, oral inhalation, or ophthalmic routes. After absorption, the drug is widely distributed throughout the body and crosses the blood-brain barrier and placenta. Protein binding is 14% to 22%. The primary route of metabolism is via enzymatic hydrolysis in the liver to metabolites, including tropic acid. The half-life of atropine is approximately 2 to 4 hours in adults. Atropine and metabolites are primarily excreted renally and, to a lesser extent, by the pulmonary and fecal routes. Approximately 13% to 57% of administered atropine is excreted unchanged in the urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Atropine is well absorbed after oral administration. Peak plasma concentrations are seen within 1 hour after oral administration in adult patients.

Intramuscular Route

Maximum concentrations (9.6 ng/mL) are attained in a mean of 3 minutes after administration of a 2 mg autoinjector in adult patients.

Inhalation Route

Atropine is well absorbed after oral inhalation. After oral inhalation, peak plasma concentrations are reached in about 0.5 to 1.5 hours.

Other Route(s)

Endotracheal Route
Atropine is well absorbed after endotracheal administration.

Pediatrics

Infants, Children, and Adolescents
The half-life of atropine is prolonged in pediatric patients. In a small pharmacokinetic study (n = 13), the half-life of atropine after IV administration was longer in children younger than 2 years of age (about 7 hours) compared to children older than 2 years (2.5 hours). In this same study, the reported mean half-life for patients 0.8 to 10 years was 4.8 +/- 3.5 hours and for patients 16 to 58 years was 3 +/- 0.9 hours. Another pharmacokinetic study of 23 pediatric patients (age range 4 to 15 years) reported a mean half-life of 6.5 hours (range 2.2 to 12.8 hours) after atropine 0.02 mg/kg IV. In 10 pediatric patients (mean age 4.8 years +/- 2.3 years), after administration of 0.03 mg/kg PO of atropine, the time to peak concentration was 2 hours. In another 10 pediatric patients (mean age 5.5 years +/- 2.9 years) after administration of 0.02 mg/kg IM of atropine, the time to peak concentration and half-life was 30 minutes and 4.4 hours, respectively.

Gender Differences

AUC and Cmax are 15% higher in females compared to males. Half-life is slightly shorter (approximately 20 minutes) in females than males.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer 30 minutes before meals.


Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.


Intravenous Administration

IV Push
Administer undiluted or diluted in 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection.
Inject via Y-site or through a 3-way stopcock at a rate of 0.6 mg over 1 minute. Doses less than 0.4 mg or IV administration over more than 1 minute may cause paradoxical slowing of the heart rate, which usually resolves within approximately 2 minutes.
During adult cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR): Resuscitation drugs may be administered intravenously by bolus injection into a peripheral vein, followed by an injection of 20 mL IV fluid. Elevate the extremity for 10 to 20 seconds to facilitate drug delivery to the central circulation. Although peak drug concentrations are lower when drugs are administered via peripheral vs. central sites, the establishment of peripheral access does not require interruption of CPR. Drugs generally reach the central circulation within 1 to 2 minutes when administered peripherally but require less time when given via central venous access.


Intramuscular Administration

Intramuscular (IM) Autoinjector
If possible, only persons with adequate training in the recognition and treatment of nerve agent or insecticide intoxication should administer the atropine autoinjector. If a trained provider is not available during an emergency, patient or caregiver administration is acceptable.
Remove the autoinjector from the plastic sleeve.
Firmly grasp the autoinjector with the green tip pointed downward. Pull off the yellow safety cap with the other hand.
Inject in the mid-lateral thigh area at a 90-degree angle. Inject through clothing if necessary, but make sure pockets at the injection site are empty. In smaller individuals, bunch up the thigh to provide a thicker area for injection.
Hold the autoinjector firmly in place for at least 10 seconds, then remove and massage the injection site in a circular motion for several seconds. If the needle is not visible after removing the autoinjector from the outer thigh, the injection is not complete. In this circumstance, check to make sure the yellow safety cap has been removed and repeat the steps for injection, pressing more firmly on the thigh. If the needle is still not visible, discard, and use a new autoinjector.
Each autoinjector has a single dose; if you need more than 1 injection, repeat the steps for injection using a new autoinjector.
After injection, bend the needle back against the autoinjector using a hard surface. Use the bent needle as a hook to pin the used autoinjector to the exposed person's clothing, or use an alternative method to notify medical professionals of the dose and number of autoinjectors given.
Move yourself and the victim away from the contaminated area immediately and locate additional medical care.
Closely observe treated patients for at least 48 to 72 hours.
 
Intramuscular (IM) Injection
Inject deeply into a large muscle mass (e.g., anterolateral thigh or deltoid [children and adolescents only]).


Subcutaneous Administration


Inject subcutaneously taking care not to inject intradermally.


Other Injectable Administration

Intraosseous (IO) Infusion
NOTE: Atropine is not approved by the FDA for IO administration.
During cardiopulmonary resuscitation, the same dosage may be given via the IO route when IV access is not available.


Ophthalmic Administration


For ophthalmic use only.
Instruct patient on proper instillation of eye ointment or solution.
Do not to touch the tip of the dropper or tube to the eye, fingertips, or other surface.


Other Administration Route(s)

Endotracheal (ET) Administration
NOTE: Atropine is not approved by the FDA for ET administration. According to ACLS and PALS guidelines, the parenteral atropine product may be administered via the ET route.
ET administration is associated with lower blood drug concentrations compared to IV administration and may be unreliable. Tracheal drug absorption may be unreliable; higher ET doses may be required.
ET administration should only be used if access to IV or intraosseous routes can not be achieved or is delayed.
The optimal dosage for ET administration has not been established.
Adults: Dilute each dose in 5 to 10 mL of sterile distilled water or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Administer via the ET tube. ET drug absorption may be improved by dilution with sterile distilled water instead of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Children: After dose administration, flush the ET tube with a minimum of 5 mL 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection and follow with 5 ventilations.


Maximum Dosage Limits

The maximum dosage of atropine is variable depending on the indication for use, route of administration, and the individual patient response. In patients with known coronary artery disease, limit the total dose of parenteral atropine to 0.03 to 0.04 mg/kg.

Dosage Forms

Atropen 1mg/0.7mL Auto-Injector Solution for Injection

Atropine Bulk powder

Atropine Sulfate 0.01% Ophthalmic drops, solution

Atropine Sulfate 0.025% Ophthalmic drops, solution

Atropine Sulfate 0.05% Ophthalmic drops, solution

Atropine Sulfate 0.05mg/1mL Solution for injection

Atropine Sulfate 0.1mg/1mL Ophthalmic drops, solution

Atropine Sulfate 0.1mg/1mL Solution for injection

Atropine Sulfate 0.25mg/1mL Ophthalmic drops, solution

Atropine Sulfate 0.4mg/1mL Solution for injection

Atropine Sulfate 0.5mg/1mL Ophthalmic drops, solution

Atropine Sulfate 1% Ophthalmic drops, solution

Atropine Sulfate 1% Ophthalmic ointment

Atropine Sulfate 1mg/1mL Solution for injection

Atropine Sulfate 2mg/0.7mL Solution for injection

Atropine Sulfate Bulk powder

Motofen 0.025mg-1mg Tablet

Motofen 0.025mg-1mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier