=== Ritlecitinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5469)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ritlecitinib is an oral kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of severe alopecia areata in adults and adolescents 12 years and older.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 50 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, atopic dermatitis, rash, urticaria, appendicitis, infection, sepsis, dizziness, fever, headache, migraine, myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, stroke, thromboembolism, thrombosis, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, lymphoma, new primary malignancy, skin cancer

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Ritlecitinib is not recommended for use in patients who have hepatic failure or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C). This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Brand Names
  - LITFULO

Dosage Forms
  - LITFULO 50mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        50 mg PO once daily.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        50 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of severe alopecia areata

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Ritlecitinib is not recommended for use in patients who have hepatic failure or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C).
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    malignancy, tobacco smoking
    General Information
    Malignancies, including non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC), were observed in clinical trials of ritlecitinib. Consider the risks and benefits of ritlecitinib prior to initiating or continuing therapy in patients with a known malignancy other than a successfully treated NMSC or cervical cancer. Periodic skin examination is recommended for patients who are at increased risk for skin cancer. In a large, randomized, postmarketing safety study of another JAK inhibitor in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, a higher rate of malignancies (excluding NMSC) and lymphoma were observed in patients treated with the JAK inhibitor compared to those treated with TNF blockers. Patients with a history of current or past tobacco smoking were at increased risk of lung cancer and overall cancers.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Use of live attenuated vaccines should be avoided during or shortly prior to initiating treatment. Prior to initiating ritlecitinib, it is recommended that patients be brought up to date with all immunizations, including prophylactic herpes zoster vaccination, in agreement with current immunization guidelines.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from clinical trials regarding use of ritlecitinib during human pregnancy are insufficient to identify a drug-associated risk for major birth defects, miscarriages, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Based on findings from animal studies, exposure to ritlecitinib during pregnancy may cause fetal harm. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of ritlecitinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis caused fetotoxicity and fetal malformations at exposures at least 49- and 55-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on area under the curve (AUC) comparison, respectively. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to ritlecitinib; information about the registry can be found at Pfizer, Inc or by calling 1-877-390-2940.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of ritlecitinib in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Ritlecitinib is present in the milk of lactating rats. When a drug is present in animal milk, it is likely that it will be present in human milk. Because of the serious adverse effects in adults, including risks of serious infection and malignancy, breast-feeding is not advised during treatment with ritlecitinib and for approximately 14 hours after the last dose (approximately 6 elimination half-lives).
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease, mortality, serious cardiovascular events, thromboembolism, thrombophilia
    General Information
    Avoid the use of ritlecitinib in patients with thrombophilia. Thromboembolism, including pulmonary embolism (PE) and arterial thrombosis, has been reported with ritlecitinib therapy. An increased risk of all-cause mortality (including sudden cardiovascular death), major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE; defined as cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI), and non-fatal stroke), and thrombosis (including deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and PE) have been observed in clinical safety studies in adult patients receiving tofacitinib, another Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor, compared to patients taking tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors. Many of the observed thrombotic events were serious and some resulted in death. Current or past tobacco smokers have an additional increased risk of major cardiovascular adverse events. Consider the benefits and risks for the individual patient before initiation or continuation of ritlecitinib therapy, particularly in those who are current or past smokers or who have other risk factors for cardiovascular disease (e.g., hypertension, previous myocardial infarction). Reserve ritlecitinib for patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF inhibitors. Advise patients of the potential increased risk for serious cardiovascular events and to seek emergency medical attention if they experience signs and symptoms of a heart attack, stroke, or blood clot. If a patient develops a thromboembolic event, discontinue the drug.
    Headline
    chronic lung disease, immunosuppression, infection, lymphopenia
    General Information
    Avoid the use of ritlecitinib in people with an active, serious infection. Perform screening for viral hepatitis in accordance with clinical guidelines before starting therapy with ritlecitinib. Starting ritlecitinib in individuals with hepatitis B infection or hepatitis C infection is not recommended. The risk and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to initiating ritlecitinib in patients: 1) with chronic or recurrent infection; 2) who have been exposed to tuberculosis; 3) with a history of a serious or an opportunistic infection; 4) who have resided or traveled in areas of endemic tuberculosis or endemic mycoses; or 5) with underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection (e.g., diabetes mellitus, chronic lung disease, HIV infection, lymphopenia, or pre-existing immunosuppression). Closely monitor ritlecitinib recipients for development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Use ritlecitinib with caution in people with diabetes mellitus. Hypoglycemia, including severe hypoglycemia, has been reported in individuals with diabetes mellitus who started ritlecitinib and other JAK inhibitors. During treatment with ritlecitinib, consider increased blood glucose monitoring as clinically indicated in individuals with diabetes. Advise individuals to notify their health care provider if they develop signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from clinical trials regarding use of ritlecitinib during human pregnancy are insufficient to identify a drug-associated risk for major birth defects, miscarriages, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Based on findings from animal studies, exposure to ritlecitinib during pregnancy may cause fetal harm. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of ritlecitinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis caused fetotoxicity and fetal malformations at exposures at least 49- and 55-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on area under the curve (AUC) comparison, respectively. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to ritlecitinib; information about the registry can be found at Pfizer, Inc or by calling 1-877-390-2940.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of ritlecitinib in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Ritlecitinib is present in the milk of lactating rats. When a drug is present in animal milk, it is likely that it will be present in human milk. Because of the serious adverse effects in adults, including risks of serious infection and malignancy, breast-feeding is not advised during treatment with ritlecitinib and for approximately 14 hours after the last dose (approximately 6 elimination half-lives).

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Abemaciclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with ritlecitinib may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with ritlecitinib due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Alosetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ritlecitinib unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ritlecitinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ritlecitinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amiodarone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiodarone exposure. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritlecitinib and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to substantially increased exposure of aprepitant. Fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant; therefore, a similar interaction is likely. Aprepitant is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Administration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the aprepitant AUC by 2-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of ritlecitinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus ritlecitinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Avanafil: (Major) Do not exceed an avanafil dose of 50 mg once every 24 hours in patients receiving ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase avanafil exposure. Avanafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Administration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the avanafil AUC by 3-fold and prolonged the half-life to approximately 8 hours.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ritlecitinib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if ritlecitinib treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Concomitant use of ritlecitinib may increase bendamustine exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions (e.g., myelosuppression, infection, hepatotoxicity). Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ritlecitinib with bosentan is necessary, as the systemic exposure of bosentan may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions; however, a bosentan dose adjustment is not necessary. Administration of bosentan with both ritlecitinib and a strong or moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor is not recommended. Bosentan is a CYP3A and CYP2C9 substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bosutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bosutinib and ritlecitinib as bosutinib plasma exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of bosutinib adverse events (e.g., myelosuppression, GI toxicity). Bosutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The Cmax and AUC values of bosutinib were increased 1.5-fold and 2-fold, respectively, when bosutinib 500 mg PO was administered with a single dose of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ritlecitinib with brexpiprazole is necessary, as the systemic exposure of brexpiprazole may be increased resulting in an increase in brexpiprazole-related adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of brexpiprazole to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose if brexpiprazole and ritlecitinib are coadministered with a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP2D6 or if the patient is a poor metabolizer of CYP2D6. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, adjust the brexpiprazole dosage to its original level. Brexpiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the exposure of brexpiprazole compared to use of brexpiprazole alone.
Bromocriptine: (Major) Reduce the bromocriptine dosage during concomitant use with ritlecitinib; bromocriptine dosage reduction recommendations vary by indication and dosage form. For the treatment of type 2 diabetes with micronized bromocriptine quick-release tablets, do not exceed a bromocriptine dosage of 1.6 mg once daily. For all other indications and dosage forms, reduce the initial bromocriptine dosage to 1.25 mg once daily and reduce the maximum bromocriptine dosage to: 3.75 mg once daily for hyperprolactinemia-associated dysfunction, 2.5 mg once daily for prolactin-secreting adenomas, 25 mg once daily for acromegaly, and 12.5 mg twice daily for idiopathic or postencephalitic parkinsonism. Concomitant use may increase bromocriptine exposure. Bromocriptine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased bromocriptine exposure by up to 3.7-fold.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with ritlecitinib due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with ritlecitinib due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with ritlecitinib due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and ritlecitinib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when ritlecitinib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping ritlecitinib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and ritlecitinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and ritlecitinib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when ritlecitinib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping ritlecitinib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and ritlecitinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in buspirone-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary; the effect may be more pronounced if the patient has been titrated to a stable dose of buspirone and ritlecitinib is added or removed from therapy. Buspirone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased buspirone exposure by 3.4 to 6-fold and was accompanied by increased buspirone-related adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with ritlecitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Capivasertib: (Major) Reduce the dose of capivasertib to 320 mg PO twice daily for 4 days followed by 3 days off if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary; monitor for adverse reactions. Concomitant use may increase capivasertib exposure which may increase the risk for capivasertib-related adverse effects. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of capivasertib by up to 1.5-fold.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy and increased carbamazepine concentrations during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and carbamazepine. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure and increase carbamazepine exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 44%.
Cariprazine: (Major) A cariprazine dosage reduction may be required during concomitant use with ritlecitinib. Cariprazine dosage modification recommendations vary by indication, previous exposure to cariprazine, and age. When initiating cariprazine in adults receiving ritlecitinib, reduce the cariprazine starting dose to 0.75 mg PO once daily; in adults with schizophrenia or bipolar mania, the cariprazine dose may be increased to 1.5 mg PO once daily, if needed, based on clinical response. Avoid initiating cariprazine in pediatric patients receiving ritlecitinib. When adding ritlecitinib to a stable dose of cariprazine, reduce the cariprazine dosage: from 1.5 mg or 3 mg once daily to 0.75 mg once daily, from 4.5 or 6 mg once daily to 1.5 mg once daily. Concomitant use increases cariprazine exposure and the risk for cariprazine-related adverse effects. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased cariprazine overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ritlecitinib, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clomipramine-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; a clomipramine dose reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase clomipramine exposure; clomipramine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for increased sedation and respiratory depression if clonazepam is coadministered with ritlecitinib; adjust the dose of clonazepam if necessary. The systemic exposure of clonazepam may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Clonazepam is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with ritlecitinib and monitor for adverse reactions. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 and CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ritlecitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ritlecitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce a dose of 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg twice daily or 0.6 mg once daily; reduce a dose of 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once daily. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 1.2 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 1.2 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased colchicine overall exposure by 1.4- to 1.9-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ritlecitinib with medroxyprogesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of medroxyprogesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Medroxyprogesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in crizotinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary; crizotinib exposure may increase. Crizotinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 200 mg once daily if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased darunavir-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir. Darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased darunavir-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir. Darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased darunavir-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir. Darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and for quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may result in increased plasma concentrations of quinidine. Quinidine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Dihydroergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate if coadministration of diltiazem with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concurrent use may result in elevated diltiazem concentrations. Diltiazem is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with ritlecitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence) of dronabinol if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration of ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ritlecitinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity if duvelisib is coadministered with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of duvelisib, increasing the risk of toxicity. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with ritlecitinib; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) If ritlecitinib and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of eliglustat with ritlecitinib in intermediate or poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (IMs or PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs), coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Concurrent use is contraindicated in EMs and IMs also receiving a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Concurrent use may result in unexpectedly high plasma concentrations of eliglustat, further increasing the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., cardiac arrhythmias).
Elinzanetant: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with ritlecitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with ritlecitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of encorafenib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased encorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. The exposure of ritlecitinib may also be decreased. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for altered response to ritlecitinib and decrease encorafenib dosage: reduce a daily dose of 450 mg to 225 mg, reduce a daily dose of 300 mg to 150 mg, reduce the daily dose to 75 mg for all other dosages. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased encorafenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with ritlecitinib due to increased entrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for entrectinib-related adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary in adults and pediatric patients 2 years and older, reduce the dose of entrectinib (600 mg/day or 400 mg/day to 200 mg/day; 300 mg/day to 100 mg/day; 200 mg/day to 50 mg/day) and limit coadministration to 14 days or less. For pediatric patients with a starting dose less than 200 mg, avoid coadministration. Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a strong moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of entrectinib by 3-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and enzalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Eplerenone: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with ritlecitinib in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving ritlecitinib, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating ritlecitinib and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate. Ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Ergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with ritlecitinib if possible due to the increased risk of erlotinib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable and severe reactions occur, reduce the dose of erlotinib by 50 mg decrements. Erlotinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2; ritlecitinib is a CYP3A and CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A/CYP1A2 inhibitor increased erlotinib exposure by 39% and increased the erlotinib Cmax by 17%.
Etrasimod: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ritlecitinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in etravirine-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary. Etravirine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use my increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and ritlecitinib should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and half-life by approximately 2.5-fold and 2-fold, respectively.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and ritlecitinib and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fezolinetant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fezolinetant and ritlecitinib is contraindicated due to the risk of increased fezolinetant exposure which may increase the risk of fezolinetant-related adverse effects. Fezolinetant is a CYP1A2 substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased fezolinetant overall exposure by 360%.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or ritlecitinib; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 248%.
Flibanserin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of flibanserin and ritlecitinib is contraindicated due to increased flibanserin exposure, which can result in severe hypotension and syncope. If initiating flibanserin following use of ritlecitinib, start flibanserin at least 2 weeks after the last dose of ritlecitinib. If initiating ritlecitinib following flibanserin use, start ritlecitinib at least 2 days after the last dose of flibanserin. Flibanserin is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased fosamprenavir toxicity if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of fosamprenavir. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Gepirone: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for gepotidacin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary; avoid use if gepotidacin is being used to treat gonorrhea. Concomitant use may increase gepotidacin exposure and the risk for gepotidacin-related adverse effects. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase gepotidacin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
guanFACINE: (Major) Decrease the dose of extended-release guanfacine by 50% if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary; if ritlecitinib is discontinued, the dose of extended-release guanfacine may be increased to the recommended level. Monitor patients closely for adverse effects including hypotension, drowsiness, lethargy, and bradycardia. Recommendations for immediate-release guanfacine are not available. Guanfacine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ibrutinib: (Major) If ibrutinib is coadministered with ritlecitinib, reduce the initial ibrutinib dosage to 280 mg/day PO in patients receiving ibrutinib for a B-cell malignancy. Resume ibrutinib at the previous dose if ritlecitinib is discontinued. No initial ibrutinib dosage reduction is necessary in patients receiving ibrutinib for chronic graft-versus-host disease. Monitor patients for ibrutinib toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, bleeding, infection); modify the ibrutinib dosage as recommended if toxicity occurs. Ibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When ibrutinib was administered with multiple doses of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC value of ibrutinib was increased by 3-fold.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of ifosfamide if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Ifosfamide is metabolized by CYP3A to its active alkylating metabolites. Ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of these active metabolites, decreasing the effectiveness of ifosfamide treatment.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivabradine and ritlecitinib as increased concentrations of ivabradine are possible, which may result in bradycardia exacerbation and conduction disturbances. Ivabradine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the AUC of ivabradine by 2- to 3-fold.
Ivacaftor: (Major) If ritlecitinib and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with ritlecitinib due to increased plasma concentrations of ivosidenib, which increases the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. Ivosidenib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the ivosidenib single-dose AUC to 173% of control based on physiologically-based pharmacokinetic modeling. Multiple doses of the moderate CYP3A inhibitor are predicted to increase the ivosidenib steady-state AUC to 190% of control.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in larotrectinib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase larotrectinib exposure. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase larotrectinib exposure by 2.7-fold.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for lefamulin-related adverse effects if oral lefamulin is administered with ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase exposure from lefamulin tablets; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and ritlecitinib as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the lemborexant overall exposure by up to 4.5-fold.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Lomitapide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritlecitinib and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with ritlecitinib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and ritlecitinib is contraindicated; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) If ritlecitinib and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Lumateperone: (Major) Reduce the dose of lumateperone to 21 mg once daily if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase lumateperone exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased lumateperone exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Lurasidone: (Major) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone is 20 mg daily (maximum, 80 mg daily) if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Reduce the lurasidone dose to half of its original dose level if ritlecitinib is added to existing lurasidone therapy. Lurasidone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased lurasidone exposure by 116%.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lurbinectedin and ritlecitinib due to the risk of increased lurbinectedin exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of lurbinectedin by 50%. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the overall exposure of lurbinectedin by up to 2.3-fold.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Maraviroc is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors may result in increased maraviroc concentrations.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ritlecitinib therapy. Avoid initiation of ritlecitinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ritlecitinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ritlecitinib with medroxyprogesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of medroxyprogesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Medroxyprogesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase mefloquine exposure and mefloquine-related adverse events. Mefloquine is a substrate of CYP3A and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with ritlecitinib can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with ritlecitinib can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Methylergonovine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of mexiletine if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of mexiletine. Mexiletine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midazolam with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase midazolam overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with ritlecitinib and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and mitotane. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ritlecitinib; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Naloxegol: (Major) Avoid concomitant administration of naloxegol and ritlecitinib due to the potential for increased naloxegol exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, decrease the naloxegol dosage to 12.5 mg once daily and monitor for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal symptoms such as hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning. Naloxegol is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased naloxegol exposure by approximately 3.4-fold.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of nab-paclitaxel with ritlecitinib is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A inhibitors.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of nelfinavir if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentrations of nelfinavir. Nelfinavir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Careful monitoring and dose adjustment of nifedipine may be necessary if administered with ritlecitinib as nifedipine exposure and adverse effects may be increased. Consider initiating nifedipine at the lowest dose. Nifedipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased nirogacestat exposure which may increase the risk for nirogacestat-related adverse effects. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase nirogacestat overall exposure by 2.73- to 3.18-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with ritlecitinib due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with ritlecitinib due to the risk of increased olaparib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of olaparib to 150 mg twice daily; the original dose may be resumed 3 to 5 elimination half-lives after ritlecitinib is discontinued. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; concomitant use may increase olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the olaparib AUC by 121%.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and ritlecitinib is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and ritlecitinib may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ritlecitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Oveporexton: (Major) Decrease the oveporexton dosage to 0.5 mg twice daily if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase oveporexton exposure and the risk for oveporexton-related adverse reactions. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased oveporexton overall exposure by 2.9-fold.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in oxybutynin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Oxybutynin is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with moderate CYP3A inhibitors may alter the mean pharmacokinetic parameters of oxybutynin, although the clinical relevance of these potential interactions is unknown.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of paclitaxel with ritlecitinib is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A inhibitors.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with ritlecitinib is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased palovarotene exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the palovarotene dose by half. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased palovarotene overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk of increased pemigatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pemigatinib to 9 mg PO once daily if original dose was 13.5 mg per day and to 4.5 mg PO once daily if original dose was 9 mg per day. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, resume the original pemigatinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of ritlecitinib. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase pemigatinib exposure by approximately 50% to 80%.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk of increased pexidartinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, increase the pexidartinib dose to the original dose after 3 plasma half-lives of ritlecitinib. Pexidartinib is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pexidartinib overall exposure by 67%.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A and CYP1A2 substrate, and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A and CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Pivekimab sunirine: (Moderate) Monitor for pivekimab sunirine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to FGN849, the cytotoxic component of pivekimab sunirine. FGN849 is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritlecitinib with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 71%.
Primidone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce a dose of 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg twice daily or 0.6 mg once daily; reduce a dose of 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once daily. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 1.2 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 1.2 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased colchicine overall exposure by 1.4- to 1.9-fold.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with ritlecitinib; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and ritlecitinib with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A, CYP2D6, and CYP1A2 substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A and CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propranolol adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration of ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase propranolol exposure. Propranolol is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and for quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may result in increased plasma concentrations of quinidine. Quinidine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for quinine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase quinine exposure. Quinine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ramelteon-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Ramelteon is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Major) Limit the dose of ranolazine to 500 mg twice daily if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ranolazine. Ranolazine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased plasma levels of ranolazine by 50% to 130%.
Rasagiline: (Major) Do not exceed a rasagiline dose of 0.5 mg once daily when coadministered with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may result in increased rasagiline concentrations. Rasagiline is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) A dose reduction of repaglinide and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Repaglinide is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ritlecitinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and rifampin. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 44%.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and rifapentine. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with ritlecitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with ritlecitinib may increase the risk for riluzole-related adverse reactions, such as gastrointestinal symptoms and elevated hepatic enzymes. In vitro findings suggest an increase in riluzole exposure is likely. Riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with ritlecitinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Roflumilast: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in roflumilast-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase roflumilast exposure. Roflumilast is a CYP3A and CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP3A/CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with other dual CYP3A/CYP1A2 inhibitors increased the exposure of roflumilast by 85% to 156%.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in saquinavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentrations of saquinavir. Saquinavir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Decrease the sebetralstat dose by 50% if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sebetralstat exposure and the risk for sebetralstat-related adverse effects. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sebetralstat overall exposure by 2-fold.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Seladelpar: (Minor) Monitor patients who are known CYP2C9 poor metabolizers more frequently for an increase in seladelpar-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use in these patients may increase seladelpar exposure. Seladelpar is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk of increased selpercatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of selpercatinib (160 mg twice daily to 120 mg twice daily; 120 mg twice daily to 80 mg twice daily; 80 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 40 mg three times daily to 40 mg once daily). Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, such as additional electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase selpercatinib exposure by 1.66-fold to 1.99-fold.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk of increased selumetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of selumetinib to 20 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 25 mg/m2 twice daily and 15 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 20 mg/m2 twice daily. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, resume the original selumetinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of ritlecitinib. Selumetinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase selumetinib exposure by 41%.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sildenafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary; consider a starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil when prescribed for erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of sildenafil by 182%. Predictions based on a pharmacokinetic model suggest that drug-drug interactions with CYP3A inhibitors will be less for sildenafil injection than those observed after oral sildenafil administration.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use my increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and ritlecitinib may increase siponimod exposure. If the patient is also receiving a drug regimen containing a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor, use of siponimod is not recommended due to a significant increase in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A dual inhibitor led to a 2-fold increase in the AUC of siponimod.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sirolimus overall exposure 1.6-fold.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer ritlecitinib for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and St. John's wort. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if ritlecitinib must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor like ritlecitinib can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Suvorexant: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with ritlecitinib. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Suzetrigine: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of ritlecitinib. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ritlecitinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tazemetostat with ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased tazemetostat exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease current tazemetostat daily dosage by 50% (e.g., decrease 800 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO twice daily; 600 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO for first dose and 200 mg PO for second dose; 400 mg PO twice daily to 200 mg PO twice daily). Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased tazemetostat overall exposure by 3.1-fold.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with ritlecitinib; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) If ritlecitinib and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Monitor theophylline concentrations and watch for an increase in theophylline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary; a theophylline dose reduction may be necessary. Theophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased bleeding if ticagrelor is coadministered with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ticagrelor. Ticagrelor is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A; ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Tinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tinidazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of tinidazole. Tinidazole is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tipranavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentrations of tipranavir. Tipranavir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
tiZANidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ritlecitinib as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Tolvaptan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritlecitinib when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with ritlecitinib. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ritlecitinib, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ritlecitinib, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of verapamil with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of verapamil. Verapamil is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tretinoin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tretinoin exposure. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Vaccinia Immune Globulin, VIG: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least two weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with ritlecitinib; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of ritlecitinib; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg every other day. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg every other day. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 3.9- and 5.1-fold, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of ritlecitinib; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg every other day. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg every other day. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 3.9- and 5.1-fold, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Major) Do not use vardenafil orally disintegrating tablets with ritlecitinib due to increased vardenafil exposure; do not exceed a single dose of 5 mg per 24-hour period of vardenafil oral tablets. Vardenafil is primarily metabolized by CYP3A; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of vardenafil by 4-fold.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with ritlecitinib due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of ritlecitinib. Venetoclax is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of verapamil with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of verapamil. Verapamil is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
vinBLAStine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinblastine-related adverse reactions, including myelosuppression, constipation, and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Vinblastine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Enhanced vinblastine toxicity was reported with coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Reduce the voclosporin dosage to 15.8 mg PO in the morning and 7.9 mg PO in the evening if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may increase voclosporin exposure and the risk of voclosporin-related adverse effects such as nephrotoxicity, hypertension, and QT prolongation. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase voclosporin exposure by 3-fold.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for increased voriconazole-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase voriconazole exposure. Voriconazole is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased voriconazole exposure by 79%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with ritlecitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 and CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Decrease the zanubrutinib dose to 80 mg PO twice daily if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may result in increased zanubrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Further decrease the zanubrutinib dose as recommended if adverse reactions occur. After discontinuation of ritlecitinib, resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The AUC of zanubrutinib is predicted to increase by 157% to 317% when coadministered with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, folliculitis
    General Information
    Acne (i.e., acne pustular and acne vulgaris) was reported in 6.2% of patients receiving ritlecitinib during clinical trials. Additionally, 3.1% of patients receiving ritlecitinib developed folliculitis during the clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      folliculitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, atopic dermatitis, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Rash (5.4%), atopic dermatitis (2.3%), and urticaria (4.6%) were reported during clinical trials of ritlecitinib. In the placebo-controlled trials, for up to 24 weeks, urticaria was reported in 28 patients treated in all ritlecitinib doses studied and 3 patients treated with placebo. Across clinical trials, including the long-term trial, urticaria was reported in 76 patients treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher. Most of the cases were mild to moderate in severity; however, serious hypersensitivity and anaphylactoid reactions have been observed in patients receiving ritlecitinib during clinical trials. If a clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction occurs, discontinue ritlecitinib and institute appropriate therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      atopic dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    appendicitis, infection, sepsis, stomatitis
    General Information
    In clinical trials, herpes zoster was reported in 1.5% of patients treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher, compared to no reports in patients who received placebo. Opportunistic infections of multi-dermatomal herpes zoster were also reported. Serious infections were reported across all ritlecitinib doses studied. The most common serious infections were related to appendicitis, Covid-19 infection (including pneumonia), and sepsis. Stomatitis (1.5%) was also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      appendicitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      sepsis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    diarrhea, dizziness, fever, headache, migraine
    General Information
    The most common adverse effects of ritlecitinib were headache, including migraine (10.8%), and diarrhea (10%). Dizziness (2.3%) and pyrexia or fever (3.1%) were also reported during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, stroke, thromboembolism, thrombosis
    General Information
    During clinical trials, pulmonary embolism (PE) was reported in a patient treated with ritlecitinib. There was also a report of retinal artery occlusion and acute myocardial infarction. Ritlecitinib should be avoided in patients who may be at risk of thrombosis. If symptoms of thrombosis or thromboembolism occur, patients should interrupt ritlecitinib and be evaluated promptly and treated appropriately. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious cardiovascular events and the steps to take if they occur. Discontinue ritlecitinib in patients that have experienced a myocardial infarction or stroke.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thromboembolism
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported in clinical trials with the use of ritlecitinib. Increases in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) of 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or greater were reported. In the placebo-controlled trials, for up to 24 weeks, events of elevated hepatic enzymes 3 times the ULN or greater were observed in patients treated with ritlecitinib. Prompt investigation of the cause of hepatic enzyme elevation is recommended to identify potential cases of drug-induced liver injury. If increases are observed and drug-induced hepatotoxicity is suspected, interrupt ritlecitinib treatment until this diagnosis is excluded. Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevations were reported in 1.5% of patients treated with ritlecitinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Treatment with ritlecitinib was associated with decreases in lymphocytes and platelets. Across clinical trials, including the long-term trial, confirmed absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) less than 500/mm3 occurred in 1 patient treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg. Age appeared to be a risk factor for lower ALC in patients 65 years of age and older. In the placebo-controlled trials, for up to 24 weeks, treatment with ritlecitinib was associated with a decrease in platelet count. Maximum effects on platelets were observed within 4 weeks, after which platelet count remained stable at a lower level with continued therapy. Across clinical trials, including the long-term trial, 1 patient had a confirmed platelet count less than 100,000/mm3. No patient had a confirmed platelet count less than 75,000/mm3. A decrease in red blood cell count (anemia; 1.5%) has also been reported in clinical trials during treatment with ritlecitinib. Ritlecitinib should not be initiated in patients with leukopenia, defined as ALC less than 500 cells/mm3 or thrombocytopenia, defined by a low platelet count less than 100,000/mm3.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Hypoglycemia has been reported during postmarketing experience with ritlecitinib. Hypoglycemia, including severe hypoglycemia, has been reported in individuals with diabetes mellitus who started ritlecitinib or other JAK inhibitors. During treatment with ritlecitinib, consider increased blood glucose monitoring as clinically indicated in individuals with diabetes. Advise individuals to notify their health care provider if they develop signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    lymphoma, new primary malignancy, skin cancer
    General Information
    Ritlecitinib may cause a new primary malignancy; malignancies, including non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC), and lymphoma were reported during clinical trials. In the placebo-controlled trials, for up to 24 weeks, 1 malignancy (breast cancer) was reported in 1 patient treated with ritlecitinib higher dose and no malignancy was reported in patients treated with placebo. Across clinical trials, including the long-term trial, malignancies excluding NMSC were reported in 7 patients treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher. Periodic skin examination is recommended for patients who are at increased risk for skin cancer.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lymphoma
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      skin cancer
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Ritlecitinib is an oral kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of severe alopecia areata in adults and adolescents 12 years and older. It inhibits Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) and the tyrosine kinase expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (TEC) family of kinases. Janus kinases are intracellular enzymes that transmit signals arising from cytokine interactions on the cellular membrane to influence cellular processes of immune cell function. Inhibition of JAK3 and TEC kinase family members by ritlecitinib may block signaling of cytokines and cytolytic activity of T cells, which is implicated in the pathogenesis of alopecia areata.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ritlecitinib is a kinase inhibitor and irreversibly inhibits Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) and the tyrosine kinase expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (TEC) kinase family by blocking the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) binding site. In cellular settings, ritlecitinib inhibits cytokine induced STAT phosphorylation mediated by JAK3-dependent receptors. Additionally, ritlecitinib inhibits signaling of immune receptors dependent on TEC kinase family members. However, the relevance of inhibition of specific JAK or TEC family enzymes to therapeutic effectiveness is not currently known.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The absolute oral bioavailability of ritlecitinib is approximately 64%. Peak plasma concentrations were reached within 1 hour following an oral dose. Food does not have a clinically significant impact on systemic exposures of ritlecitinib. Coadministration of a 100-mg ritlecitinib capsule with a high-fat meal reduced the ritlecitinib Cmax by approximately 32% and AUCinf was increased by 11%. In clinical trials, ritlecitinib was administered without regard to meals. Ritlecitinib AUC0-tau and Cmax increase in an approximately dose-proportional manner up to 200 mg. Steady state was reached approximately by Day 4.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Patients with moderate (Child Pugh B) hepatic impairment had an 18.5% increase in ritlecitinib AUC24 compared to patients with normal hepatic function. Ritlecitinib has not been studied in patients with mild (Child Pugh A) hepatic impairment, as a clinically relevant increase in ritlecitinib exposure is not expected in these patients. Ritlecitinib has not been studied in patients with severe (Child Pugh C) hepatic impairment and is not recommended for use in these patients.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The AUC24 observed in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute) was 55.2% higher compared with the AUC24 in matched participants with normal renal function. These differences are not considered clinically significant. Ritlecitinib has not been studied in patients with mild (eGFR 60 to less than 90 mL/minute) or moderate (eGFR 30 to less than 60 mL/minute) renal impairment, as a clinically relevant increase in ritlecitinib exposure is not expected in these patients. The eGFR and classification of renal function status of patients was done using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) formula. Ritlecitinib has not been studied in patients with ESRD or in renal transplant recipients.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Age did not have a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetic profile of ritlecitinib.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age did not have a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetic profile of ritlecitinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not have a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetic profile of ritlecitinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Ethnic differences did not have a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetic profile of ritlecitinib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight did not have a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetic profile of ritlecitinib.
  Text
  Ritlecitinib is administered orally. After oral administration, approximately 14% of circulating ritlecitinib is bound to plasma proteins. Approximately 66% of radiolabeled ritlecitinib dose is excreted in the urine and 20% in the feces. Approximately 4% of the ritlecitinib dose is excreted as unchanged drug in urine. Metabolism of ritlecitinib is mediated by multiple pathways with no single route contributing to more than 25% of the total metabolism. The elimination mean terminal half-life of ritlecitinib ranges from 1.3 to 2.3 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, CYP2C8, CYP1A2, and CYP2C9
In vitro studies indicate that ritlecitinib is not an inhibitor of CYP2D6, uridine 5'-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)s (UGT1A1, UGT1A4, UGT1A6, UGT1A9, and UGT2B7), GSTs or sulfotransferases (SULTs), and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) or bile salt export pump (BSEP).

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer capsules with or without food.
Swallow capsules whole. Do not crush, split, or chew capsules.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    50 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    50 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    50 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 50 mg/day PO.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild (Child Pugh A) or moderate (Child Pugh B) hepatic impairment: No dosage adjustments needed.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh C): Not recommended.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
