=== Terazosin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 591)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Terazosin, a quinazoline derivative, is an alpha-1 adrenoreceptor antagonist (alpha blocker) used in the treatment of hypertension and benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, paresthesias, vertigo, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, peripheral vasodilation, sinus tachycardia, syncope, weight gain, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, infection, infertility, libido decrease, priapism, urinary incontinence, cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, influenza, nasal congestion, pharyngitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Terazosin can cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, which can be hazardous for patients in occupations that require alertness. This effect can be dramatic after the initial dose.

Brand Names
  - Hytrin
  - TEZRULY

Dosage Forms
  - Terazosin Hydrochloride 10mg Oral capsule
  - Terazosin Hydrochloride 1mg Oral capsule
  - Terazosin Hydrochloride 2mg Oral capsule
  - Terazosin Hydrochloride 5mg Oral capsule
  - TEZRULY 1mg/mL Solution

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 mg PO once daily at bedtime, initially. Usual dose range: 1 to 20 mg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses. If therapy is interrupted for several days, restart at 1 mg PO once daily. Max: 20 mg/day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of hypertension
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase dose in a stepwise manner (e.g., 2 mg, then 5 mg, and then 10 mg PO once daily) based on clinical response. Usual dose: 10 mg/day. If no response after 4 to 6 weeks on 10 mg PO once daily, may increase dose to a maximum of 20 mg/day. If therapy is interrupted for several days, restart at 1 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Terazosin can cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, which can be hazardous for patients in occupations that require alertness. This effect can be dramatic after the initial dose. The addition of terazosin to other antihypertensive agents can cause a rapid decrease in blood pressure (see Drug Interactions). Terazosin therapy should be initiated cautiously in patients receiving other antihypertensive agents. Terazosin should be used with caution in patients with angina pectoris because severe hypotension may cause or worsen angina.Patients with renal impairment (renal disease, renal failure) and the elderly should be monitored carefully for exaggerated hypotensive effects (e.g., first dose effect). Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the hypotensive and adverse effects (dry mouth and drowsiness) of terazosin. Monitor elderly patients closely for efficacy and safety parameters.No adequate, well-controlled studies in pregnant women have been done to assess the safety of terazosin during pregnancy. Terazosin should be used during pregnancy only if the benefits to the mother outweigh the risks to the fetus. Terazosin is classified as FDA pregnancy category C. Caution is advisable for breast-feeding mothers because it is not known if terazosin distributes into breast milk.Patients receiving or who have previously received treatment with alpha-1 blockers may be at risk for intraoperative floppy iris syndrome during surgery for cataracts (ocular surgery). Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome is a small pupil syndrome variant that is characterized by a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery, but ophthalmologists should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique such as the use of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    As with other alpha-adrenergic antagonists, terazosin may cause orthostatic hypotension (postural hypotension, dizziness, and/or vertigo), which can lead to syncope. This effect can be dramatic after the initial dose. People starting treatment with terazosin should be cautioned to avoid situations where syncope could result in an injury, such as driving or operating machinery or completing other activities requiring coordination and concentration, until they are reasonably certain that terazosin does not affect them adversely.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Terazosin is a quinazoline derivative structure alpha-1 blocker, and it is recommended to avoid use in people with a hypersensitivity to other quinazoline alpha-1 blockers (e.g., doxazosin, prazosin).
    Headline
    planned procedure
    General Information
    The initiation of terazosin is not recommended for people who have a planned procedure for cataract or glaucoma surgery scheduled. Use caution in patients currently taking terazosin who will have these procedures. Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during ocular surgery for cataracts and glaucoma in patients on or previously treated with alpha-1 blockers, including terazosin. This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation current, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic medications, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. The patient's surgeon should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. There does not appear to be a benefit in stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy such as terazosin prior to cataract surgery.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria consider terazosin and other cardiovascular/non-selective alpha-1 blockers as potentially inappropriate medications for geriatric adults. These drugs are not recommended for routine treatment of hypertension in older adults due to the high risk of orthostatic hypotension and the availability of alternatives with a superior benefit to risk profile in this population. Avoid non-selective peripheral alpha-1 blockers in geriatric adults who have a history of syncope that may be due to orthostatic hypotension. Avoid use of alpha-blockers in geriatric women with urinary incontinence (all types) as aggravation of incontinence may occur.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    The limited available data on terazosin use during pregnancy are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed when terazosin was orally administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses of up to 280 and 60 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD); however, reduced fetal survival was observed. Increased fetal resorption, decreased fetal weight, and an increased number of supernumerary ribs were observed; these findings were most likely secondary to maternal toxicity.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with terazosin. Possible effects on male fertility could be observed based on findings in rats at exposures that were at least 15-times higher than the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis. The clinical relevance of this finding is unknown.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use terazosin with caution during breast-feeding. There are no available data on the presence of terazosin in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    The limited available data on terazosin use during pregnancy are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed when terazosin was orally administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses of up to 280 and 60 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD); however, reduced fetal survival was observed. Increased fetal resorption, decreased fetal weight, and an increased number of supernumerary ribs were observed; these findings were most likely secondary to maternal toxicity.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with terazosin. Possible effects on male fertility could be observed based on findings in rats at exposures that were at least 15-times higher than the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis. The clinical relevance of this finding is unknown.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Alfuzosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving alpha-blockers should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped, patients should not receive amifostine.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving terazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving terazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin.
Amphetamines: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving terazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of terazosin and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
ARIPiprazole: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Avanafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of avanafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving terazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to brexpiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including alpha-blockers. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving terazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of alpha-blockers. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
DOBUTamine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
DOPamine: (Major) In general, alpha-blockers should not be used during dopamine infusion. The undesired peripheral vasoconstriction observed with high-dose dopamine is opposed by alpha-adrenergic blockers. The renal, mesenteric, or cerebral vasodilatory properties resulting from dopaminergic-receptor stimulation are not affected by alpha-blockers .
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Carefully monitor blood pressure in patients who have received both ephedrine and alpha-blockers; alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effect of ephedrine.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Carefully monitor blood pressure in patients who have received both ephedrine and alpha-blockers; alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effect of ephedrine.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Epoprostenol: (Minor) Epoprostenol can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents, including alpha-blockers. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormonal contraceptives should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking alpha-blockers. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Etodolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Finasteride: (Minor) Terazosin has been reported to increase peak concentrations of finasteride by 16% and AUC by 31% when the two agents are coadministered. The interaction is of minor importance.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg. (Minor) Terazosin has been reported to increase peak concentrations of finasteride by 16% and AUC by 31% when the two agents are coadministered. The interaction is of minor importance.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) In general, haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) The effects of iloprost on blood pressure may be additive to those of antihypertensive agents. Lower doses of the antihypertensive may be needed with combined treatment.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy with antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isoproterenol: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving terazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin.
Lofexidine: (Major) Because the central alpha-2 agonist effects of lofexidine can cause hypotension and orthostasis, the drug should be avoided, if possible, in combination with other medications that can significantly decrease blood pressure such as the antihypertensive alpha-blockers. If coadministration is required, blood pressure should be monitored, particularly after dose changes of either agent. Adjustments should be made as clinically indicated. Patients being given lofexidine in an outpatient setting should be capable of and instructed on self-monitoring for hypotension, orthostasis, bradycardia, and associated symptoms. If clinically significant or symptomatic hypotension and/or bradycardia occur, the next dose of lofexidine should be reduced in amount, delayed, or skipped.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving terazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of methohexital and alpha-blockers increases the risk of developing hypotension and hypothermia.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Midodrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Nicotine: (Moderate) Nicotine use may reduce the clinical effects of the alpha-blockers. If significant changes in nicotine intake occur, the dosages of these drugs may need adjustment.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly. Also, because norepinephrine is an alpha-adrenergic agonist, drugs with alpha-blocking activity such as alpha-blockers directly counteract the vasopressor effects of norepinephrine.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) Caution is advised when administering terazosin with oxymetazoline. Terazosin, an alpha adrenergic blocker, would likely antagonize the sympathomimetic effects of oxymetazoline, alpha adrenergic agonists; thereby reducing the effectiveness of oxymetazoline.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving terazosin who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy with antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy with antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sildenafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together.
Silodosin: (Major) Silodosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between silodosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sulindac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg.
Tamsulosin: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that slow cardiac conduction such as alpha-blockers should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive bradycardia.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Timolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) The first-dose response (acute postural hypotension) of terazosin can be potentiated by coadministration with beta-blockers. The use of alpha-blockers with verapamil can lead to excessive hypotension; In addition, verapamil has been reported to increase the AUC and Cmax of prazosin and terazosin.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The use of hypotensive agents and tranylcypromine is contraindicated by the manufacturer of tranylcypromine because the effects of hypotensive agents may be markedly potentiated.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together.
Verapamil: (Moderate) The first-dose response (acute postural hypotension) of terazosin can be potentiated by coadministration with beta-blockers. The use of alpha-blockers with verapamil can lead to excessive hypotension; In addition, verapamil has been reported to increase the AUC and Cmax of prazosin and terazosin.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The most common adverse effects of terazosin therapy are lightheadedness; dizziness (19%); headache (16%); drowsiness (5%); asthenia (weakness, tiredness, and fatigue) (11%); lethargy; nausea/vomiting (4.4%); peripheral edema (6%); nasal congestion (6%); and palpitations. These effects usually can be alleviated with a decrease in dosage, or they may resolve with prolonged therapy.Terazosin-induced syncope is unpredictable and has no correlation with plasma terazosin levels. First-dose syncope can be avoided by reducing the dosage. Administering the drug with food also can minimize this reaction. Syncope may be preceded by sinus tachycardia (120—160 beats/minute) and has been associated with dosage increases and/or the initiation of additional antihypertensive agents to the patient's regimen. Orthostatic hypotension, sinus tachycardia, and angina also have been reported during therapy with terazosin.Terazosin therapy can cause other adverse effects including rash, pruritus, urinary frequency, incontinence, blurred vision, xerostomia (dry mouth), vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, liver-function test abnormalities, diaphoresis, dyspnea, fever, and arthralgia.There have been rare reports of priapism and thrombocytopenia during post-marketing surveillance of terazosin. Atrial fibrillation has also been reported.The alpha-1 blocker tamsulosin is associated with an ocular condition known as intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS). It is not known if terazosin and other selective alpha-1 receptor blockers are associated with this condition. Tamsulosin selectively blocks alpha-1A receptor subtypes whereas terazosin and other selective alpha-1 receptor blockers do not distinguish between alpha-1 receptor subtypes 1A, 1B, or 1D. Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome has been reported during cataract surgery in some patients treated with tamsulosin and is a variant of small pupil syndrome. The syndrome is characterized by a triad of a features that distinguish it: 1) a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, 2) progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and 3) potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. Most reports were in patients taking tamsulosin when IFIS occurred, but in some cases, the alpha-1 blocker had been stopped prior to surgery. In most cases, tamsulosin had been discontinued within 2 to 14 days, but in a few cases, IFIS was reported after tamsulosin therapy was stopped for a longer period (5 weeks to 9 months). The mechanism of this syndrome is thought to be inhibition of alpha-1A receptors in the iris. Based on animal data in rabbits, which are purported to have similar iris alpha-1 receptor subtypes to human, tamsulosin selectively blocks the alpha-1A receptors in iris dilator smooth muscle. Since tamsulosin has a long half-life, this alpha-1A receptor blockade in the iris can cause a form of disuse atrophy of the iris dilator smooth muscle. Patients receiving tamsulosin often have poor pupil dilation; amblyopia is reported frequently. The patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. The benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery has not been established.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anxiety, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, paresthesias, vertigo
    General Information
    Dizziness (9% to 19.3%), somnolence/drowsiness (3.6% to 5.4%), paresthesias (2.9% to 3%), headache (4.9% to 16.2%), vertigo (1% to 1.4%), nervousness (2.3%), and depression (0.3%) occurred in terazosin-treated subjects and more frequently than in subjects receiving placebo during clinical trials. Dizziness and drowsiness were the only central nervous system (CNS) effects that were significantly more common in terazosin-treated subjects compared to placebo. CNS effects that occurred in at least 1% of individuals during clinical trials or during postmarketing use include nervousness, depression, anxiety, and insomnia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, peripheral vasodilation, sinus tachycardia, syncope
    General Information
    Orthostatic hypotension (1% to 4%), syncope (0.6% to 1%), palpitations (0.9% to 4.3%), and sinus tachycardia (1.9% to 2%) occurred in terazosin-treated subjects and more frequently than in subjects receiving placebo during clinical trials. In benign prostatic hyperplasia clinical trials, the incidence of hypotension was the same among individuals treated with terazosin or placebo. Orthostatic hypotension was the only cardiac effect that was significantly more common in terazosin-treated subjects compared to placebo. Cardiac effects that occurred in at least 1% of subjects during clinical trials or postmarketing use include arrhythmias, peripheral vasodilation, chest pain (unspecified), and atrial fibrillation. Terazosin-induced syncope may occur with administration of the first dose, within the first few days of therapy, or if therapy is interrupted for several days and then restarted. Rapid increases in terazosin dose or initiation of another antihypertensive medication may increase the risk of syncope. While syncope is thought to occur due to an excessive orthostatic hypotensive effect, it has, on occasion, been preceded by an episode of sinus tachycardia (120 to 160 beats/minute). The risk of orthostatic hypotension and syncope remains throughout terazosin therapy; however, it is greatest within the first 7 days of treatment and shortly after administration, even with chronic therapy. To reduce the incidence of syncope with terazosin therapy, initiate treatment at a low dose, administer at bedtime, and slowly increase dose in a stepwise fashion to achieve the desired clinical response. Advise individuals of syncope risk and need for caution with driving or performing hazardous tasks following the first dose, dosage increase, and reinitiation of terazosin after an interruption of therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasodilation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Peripheral edema (0.9% to 6%) and edema (0.9%) were reported with terazosin therapy during clinical trials. The incidence of peripheral edema was significantly higher in terazosin-treated individuals with hypertension compared to those treated with placebo during clinical trials. Facial edema was reported in at least 1% of subjects treated with terazosin in clinical trials or during postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, nausea, vomiting, weight gain, xerostomia
    General Information
    Nausea (1.7% to 4.4%) and weight gain (0.5% to 1%) occurred in terazosin-treated subjects and more frequently than in subjects receiving placebo during clinical trials. Gastrointestinal effects that occurred in at least 1% of subjects during clinical trial evaluation or have been reported during postmarketing use of terazosin include constipation, diarrhea, xerostomia, dyspepsia, flatulence, vomiting, and abdominal pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, infection, infertility, libido decrease, priapism, urinary incontinence
    General Information
    Libido decrease occurred in 0.6% to 1% and impotence (erectile dysfunction) in 1% to 2% of terazosin-treated subjects during clinical trials. In benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH) clinical trials, erectile dysfunction was significantly more frequent with terazosin therapy compared to placebo (p 0.05 or less). Additionally, there are possible effects on male fertility (e.g., altered sperm count) based on findings in rats at exposures that were at least 15-times higher than the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis. The clinical relevance of this finding is unknown; consider the possibility of these effects when assessing male infertility in a terazosin-treated male.  In rare (less than 1 in 50,000) cases, terazosin, like other alpha adrenergic antagonists, has been associated with priapism (persistent painful penile erection unrelated to sexual activity); priapism has been reported postmarketing (2 to 3 dozen cases). If not treated properly and promptly, priapism can result in irreversible damage to the penile tissue and permanent erectile dysfunction. Advise patients about the serious nature of this condition and to seek emergency medical attention if priapism occurs. Other genitourinary (GU) or reproductive effects that occurred in at least 1% of subjects during clinical trial evaluation or have been reported during postmarketing use include increased urinary frequency, urinary incontinence primarily in postmenopausal females, and urinary tract infection.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    floppy iris syndrome
    General Information
    Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS), a variant of small pupil syndrome, has been observed during cataract surgery in some subjects treated with alpha blockers. It is not known if terazosin is associated with this condition; however, clinicians should be prepared for possible modifications to the surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. The syndrome is characterized by: 1) a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, 2) progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and 3) potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      floppy iris syndrome
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, influenza, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Dyspnea (1.7% to 3.1%), influenza/flu syndrome (2% to 2.4%), rhinitis (1.9% to 2%), nasal congestion (1.9% to 6%), and sinusitis (2.6% to 3%) occurred in terazosin-treated subjects and more frequently than in subjects receiving placebo during clinical trials. Nasal congestion and rhinitis were the only respiratory effects that were significantly more common in subjects receiving terazosin compared to placebo. Respiratory effects that occurred in at least 1% of subjects during clinical trial evaluation or have been reported during postmarketing use include bronchitis, cold symptoms, epistaxis, flu symptoms, increased cough, pharyngitis, and rhinitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, tinnitus, visual impairment
    General Information
    Blurred vision (1.3% to 2%) and amblyopia (1.3%) occurred in terazosin-treated subjects and more frequently than in subjects receiving placebo in clinical trials. Ophthalmic or otic effects that occurred in at least 1% of subjects during clinical trial evaluation or have been reported during postmarketing use include visual impairment/abnormal vision, conjunctivitis, and tinnitus.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      amblyopia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    asthenia, back pain, fatigue, fever, gout, weakness
    General Information
    Asthenia, including weakness, tiredness, lassitude, and fatigue, occurred in 7% to 11.3% of terazosin-treated subjects in clinical trials; the difference between individuals treated with terazosin and placebo was statistically significant. Extremity pain (3.5% to 4%) and back pain (2% to 2.4%) occurred more frequently in terazosin-treated subjects than those subjects receiving placebo in clinical trials. General effects that occurred in at least 1% of subjects during clinical trial evaluation or have been reported during postmarketing use include fever, neck pain, shoulder pain, and gout.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      gout
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash
    General Information
    Pruritus, rash, and hyperhidrosis have occurred in at least 1% of subjects receiving terazosin or have been reported during postmarketing use. Allergic reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, have been reported with postmarketing use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    arthralgia, arthropathy, myalgia
    General Information
    Arthralgia, arthritis, joint disorder (arthropathy), and myalgia occurred in at least 1% of subjects or have been reported during postmarketing use during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      arthropathy
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Thrombocytopenia was reported during postmarketing use with terazosin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Terazosin, a quinazoline derivative, is an alpha-1 adrenoreceptor antagonist (alpha blocker) used in the treatment of hypertension and benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH). Terazosin reduces blood pressure through venous and arterial dilation, which decreases systemic and peripheral vascular resistance. In BPH, terazosin reduces pressure on the urethra and increases urine flow through relaxation of bladder neck and prostatic smooth muscles. Terazosin is considered a first-line option for the treatment of BPH and a second-line option for the treatment of hypertension in individuals with concomitant BPH. Terazosin may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, especially in geriatric individuals. Due to the risk of orthostatic hypotension, terazosin is not recommended for routine treatment of hypertension in geriatric adults. Syncope may occur with the first dose, within the first few days of therapy, or if therapy is interrupted for several days and then restarted. To reduce the incidence of syncope with terazosin therapy, initiate treatment at a low dose, administer at bedtime, and slowly increase the dose in a stepwise fashion to achieve the desired clinical response. Terazosin was FDA-approved in 1987.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Terazosin is a competitive alpha-1 adrenoreceptor antagonist (alpha blocker). Alpha-1 adrenergic receptors are postsynaptic receptors located in the central nervous system and on smooth muscles, including vascular, prostatic, bladder neck, and intestinal smooth muscles. As an antihypertensive, terazosin's antagonistic effects on alpha-1 receptors result in venous and arterial dilation, decreasing systemic and peripheral vascular resistance, which ultimately reduces blood pressure. In the treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), the blockade of alpha-1 adrenergic receptors allows the smooth muscles of the bladder neck and prostate to relax, resulting in less pressure on the urethra and an increase in urine flow. Compared to the prevalence of alpha-1 adrenoreceptors in the bladder neck, prostate stroma, prostatic capsule, and prostatic urethra, there are limited receptors in the body of the bladder. Because there are fewer alpha-1 adrenoceptors in the bladder body, terazosin is able to reduce bladder outlet obstruction without affecting bladder contractility.
Terazosin may decrease the levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides. Terazosin may increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL). The implications of these changes are not known.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Antihypertensive effects are seen within 15 minutes following oral administration of terazosin and persist throughout the dosing interval (usually 24 hours). Limited data demonstrate that the peak blood pressure response measured 2 to 3 hours post-dose is more than twice the trough response at 24 hours post-dose during chronic administration. Terazosin administration to normotensive men with BPH did not result in a clinically significant blood pressure lowering effect.
Oral Capsules: Terazosin capsules are almost completely absorbed following administration. Peak plasma concentrations occur approximately 1 hour after administration. Food has minimal effect on the extent of absorption of terazosin capsules; however, the time to reach peak plasma concentrations is delayed by approximately 40 minutes.
Oral Solution: Following administration of a single dose of terazosin oral solution under fasted conditions, the median time to peak plasma terazosin concentrations is 0.67 hours (range 0.5 to 1.75 hours). Mean terazosin Cmax and AUC are 27.09 nanogram/mL and 285.62 hours x nanogram/mL, respectively. No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of terazosin oral solution are observed following administration of a high fat, high calorie meal.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Impaired renal function has no significant effect on the elimination of terazosin. Terazosin is minimally (approximately 10%) removed during hemodialysis.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    In a study that evaluated the effect of age on terazosin pharmacokinetics, the mean plasma half-lives were 14 and 11.4 hours for patients 70 years and older and patients 20 to 39 years, respectively. Following oral administration, the plasma clearance decreased by 31.7% in patients 70 years and older compared to patients 20 to 39 years.
  Text
  Terazosin is administered orally. It is extensively bound to plasma proteins (90% to 94%). Terazosin undergoes minimal first pass metabolism and a majority of the circulating dose is in the form of the parent drug. Approximately 40% of an oral terazosin dose is excreted in the urine (10% as unchanged drug) and about 60% in the feces (20% as unchanged drug). The plasma half-life is approximately 12 to 13 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Oral Solution
Measure oral terazosin solution with a calibrated measuring device (e.g., oral syringe or oral dosing cup). A household measuring cup, teaspoon, or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device.
      Name
      Extemporaneous Compounding-Oral
      Description
      Extemporaneous compounding instructions for terazosin oral solution prepared from oral capsules
NOTE: This extemporaneous formulation is not FDA-approved.
Terazosin binds to the soft-gelatin capsule in which it is formulated making it difficult to completely extract the contents when the liquid is squeezed from the capsule.
The following strategy has been recommended as an alternative method of oral administration in patients with feeding tubes:
Place the capsule in a cup containing 60 ml of warm tap water (100 to 110 degrees F).
Stir until the liquid in the capsule spills from the ruptured shell (about 5 minutes).
Continue stirring until the capsule dissolves and the solution is homogeneous (5 to 10 minutes). The solution color depends on the color of the capsule.
Draw the solution into an oral syringe and administer through the feeding tube. Flush the tube with water following administration.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Observe for postural hypotension, particularly after the first dose.
Terazosin may be administered without regard to meals.
If terazosin is discontinued for several days, restart therapy using the initial dosing regimen.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Hemodialysis
Dosage adjustment to compensate for the drug removal during hemodialysis (approximately 10%) does not appear to be necessary.
