=== Sulfacetamide/Sulfur (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1174)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Sulfacetamide and sulfur are used together in a topical preparation to treat acne rosacea, acne vulgaris, and seborrheic dermatitis.

Routes: topical, oral; Common adult doses: 3 applications/day for creams, gels, lotions, and foam; 2 applications/day for washes and cleansers.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): edema, erythema, pruritus, skin irritation, agranulocytosis, contact dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, fever, hemolytic anemia, jaundice, photosensitivity, purpura, stevens-johnson syndrome

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Patients known to have sulfonamide hypersensitivity should not be treated with sulfacetamide; sulfur topical preparations.

Brand Names
  - AVAR
  - Avar Green
  - AVAR LS
  - Avar-E
  - Avar-e Green
  - AVAR-e LS
  - BP 10-1 Wash
  - BP Cleansing Wash
  - CERISA
  - Clarifoam EF
  - Claris
  - Clenia
  - Clenia Plus
  - Garimide
  - Nicosyn
  - Plexion
  - Plexion Cloths
  - Plexion SCT
  - Plexion TS
  - Prascion
  - Prascion AV
  - Prascion FC
  - Prascion RA
  - Prascion TS
  - Rosac
  - Rosac with Sunscreens
  - Rosaderm
  - Rosanil
  - Rosula
  - SE 10-5 SS
  - SSS 10-4
  - SSS 10-5
  - Sulfacet-R
  - SulfaCleanse 8/4
  - Sulfamez
  - Sulfatol
  - Sulfatol C
  - Sulfatol SS
  - Sulfatol-M
  - SulZee
  - Sumadan
  - Sumaxin
  - Sumaxin Cleansing Pads
  - Sumaxin TS
  - Suphera
  - Topisulf
  - VIRTI-SULF
  - Zencia
  - Zetacet
  - Zma Clear

Dosage Forms
  - AVAR 10%-5% Topical Cleanser
  - AVAR LS 10%-2% Topical Cleanser
  - AVAR-e 10%-5% Topical Cream
  - BP 10%-4% Cleansing Wash
  - BP 10-1 Topical Wash
  - Clenia Plus 9%-4.25% with Green Tea and Aloe Topical Suspension
  - PLEXION 9.8%-4.8% Topical Cleanser
  - PLEXION 9.8%-4.8% Topical Cleanser
  - PLEXION 9.8%-4.8% Topical Cleanser
  - PLEXION 9.8%-4.8% Topical Cleansing Cloth
  - PLEXION 9.8%-4.8% Topical Cream
  - PLEXION 9.8%-4.8% Topical Cream
  - PLEXION 9.8%-4.8% Topical Lotion
  - PLEXION 9.8%-4.8% Topical Lotion
  - Rosula 10%-4.5% Topical Wash
  - Rosula 10%-5% Cleansing Cloths
  - SSS 10-4 Topical Foam
  - SSS 10-5 Topical Emollient Foam
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 10%, Sulfur 1% Topical emulsion
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 10%, Sulfur 2% Topical cream
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 10%, Sulfur 2% Topical suspension, cleanser
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 10%, Sulfur 4% Topical pad, cleanser
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 10%, Sulfur 5% Topical cream
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 10%, Sulfur 5% Topical lotion
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 10%, Sulfur 5% Topical suspension
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 10%, Sulfur 5% Topical suspension, cleanser
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 8%, Sulfur 4% Topical suspension
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 8%, Sulfur 4% Topical suspension, cleanser
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 9%, Sulfur 4% Topical solution
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 9%, Sulfur 4% Topical suspension, cleanser
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 9%, Sulfur 4.25% Topical suspension, cleanser
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 9%, Sulfur 4.5% Topical solution
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 9%, Sulfur 4.5% Topical suspension, cleanser
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 9.8%, Sulfur 4.8% Topical cream
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 9.8%, Sulfur 4.8% Topical lotion
  - Sulfacetamide Sodium 9.8%, Sulfur 4.8% Topical suspension, cleanser
  - SulfaCleanse 8/4 Topical Suspension
  - SulZee 10%-1% Topical Wash
  - Sumadan 9%-4.5% Topical Wash
  - Sumaxin 10%-4% Cleansing Pads
  - Sumaxin 9%-4% Topical Wash
  - Zma Clear 9%-4.5% with Green Tea and Aloe Topical Suspension

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Topical dosage (cream, gel, lotion, or suspension)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) 1 to 3 times daily. To minimize potential dryness, start with 1 application daily and gradually increase to 2 to 3 times daily. Combination therapy is recommended.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) 1 to 3 times daily. To minimize potential dryness, start with 1 application daily and gradually increase to 2 to 3 times daily. Combination therapy is recommended.
      Heading
      Topical dosage (wash or cleanser)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Apply a liberal amount topically to the affected area(s) of wet skin and massage into a lather 1 to 2 times daily, then rinse thoroughly. Combination therapy is recommended.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        Apply a liberal amount topically to the affected area(s) of wet skin and massage into a lather 1 to 2 times daily, then rinse thoroughly. Combination therapy is recommended.
      Heading
      Topical dosage (foam)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Apply a small amount topically to the affected area(s) 1 to 3 times daily, then rinse thoroughly or leave-on application. Combination therapy is recommended.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        Apply a small amount topically to the affected area(s) 1 to 3 times daily, then rinse thoroughly or leave-on application. Combination therapy is recommended.
    Heading
    For the treatment of acne vulgaris, acne rosacea, and seborrheic dermatitis as an adjunct

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Patients known to have sulfonamide hypersensitivity should not be treated with sulfacetamide; sulfur topical preparations. Less is known regarding the cross-sensitivity between sulfonamides and the other agents, although some clinicians doubt that significant risk exists. Nevertheless, sulfacetamide; sulfur products should be used cautiously in patients with thiazide diuretic hypersensitivity, sulfonylurea hypersensitivity, or carbonic anhydrase inhibitor hypersensitivity due to some slight structural similarities. Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved since systemic exposure might be more likely to produce allergic/toxic reactions in sensitive individuals.
    Headline
    renal disease
    General Information
    Administration of sulfacetamide; sulfur products is contraindicated for patients who have renal disease, renal impairment, or renal failure.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate or well-controlled studies available for the use of topical sulfacetamide; sulfur during pregnancy. It is unknown whether sulfacetamide; sulfur can cause harm to the fetus or affect the reproductive system. Sulfacetamide; sulfur should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the fetus.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use sulfacetamide; sulfur topical products with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of topical sulfacetamide; sulfur in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Orally administered sulfonamides have been isolated in human milk. The use of sulfacetamide; sulfur may be considered for use in individuals who are breast-feeding healthy infants; however, caution should be used when breast-feeding infants with jaundice, hyperbilirubinemia, or G6PD deficiency or those who are critically ill, stressed, or premature.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate or well-controlled studies available for the use of topical sulfacetamide; sulfur during pregnancy. It is unknown whether sulfacetamide; sulfur can cause harm to the fetus or affect the reproductive system. Sulfacetamide; sulfur should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use sulfacetamide; sulfur topical products with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of topical sulfacetamide; sulfur in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Orally administered sulfonamides have been isolated in human milk. The use of sulfacetamide; sulfur may be considered for use in individuals who are breast-feeding healthy infants; however, caution should be used when breast-feeding infants with jaundice, hyperbilirubinemia, or G6PD deficiency or those who are critically ill, stressed, or premature.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of aluminum toxicity if concomitant use of aluminum hydroxide and a citrate-containing medication is necessary; avoid concomitant use in patients with renal impairment. Citrate salts enhance oral aluminum absorption, which may increase aluminum exposure and the risk for aluminum toxicity.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of aluminum toxicity if concomitant use of aluminum hydroxide and a citrate-containing medication is necessary; avoid concomitant use in patients with renal impairment. Citrate salts enhance oral aluminum absorption, which may increase aluminum exposure and the risk for aluminum toxicity.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of aluminum toxicity if concomitant use of aluminum hydroxide and a citrate-containing medication is necessary; avoid concomitant use in patients with renal impairment. Citrate salts enhance oral aluminum absorption, which may increase aluminum exposure and the risk for aluminum toxicity.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of aluminum toxicity if concomitant use of aluminum hydroxide and a citrate-containing medication is necessary; avoid concomitant use in patients with renal impairment. Citrate salts enhance oral aluminum absorption, which may increase aluminum exposure and the risk for aluminum toxicity.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of aluminum toxicity if concomitant use of aluminum hydroxide and a citrate-containing medication is necessary; avoid concomitant use in patients with renal impairment. Citrate salts enhance oral aluminum absorption, which may increase aluminum exposure and the risk for aluminum toxicity.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Amphetamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Amphetamines: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Avoid the use of urine alkalinizing agents during methenamine therapy. Concomitant use may reduce methenamine efficacy.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Bile acid sequestrants: (Major) In vitro studies have shown that bile acid sequestrants bind niacin. The results suggest that at least 4 to 6 hours should elapse between the ingestion of bile-acid-binding resins and the administration of niacin.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Calcium Acetate: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Calcium Carbonate: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Calcium Chloride: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Calcium Gluconate: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Calcium: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Captopril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Cardiac glycosides: (Major) The pharmacodynamic actions of edetate disodium oppose those of the cardiac glycosides.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Cholestyramine: (Major) In vitro studies have shown that bile acid sequestrants bind niacin. The results suggest that at least 4 to 6 hours should elapse between the ingestion of bile-acid-binding resins and the administration of niacin.
Chromium: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Colesevelam: (Major) In vitro studies have shown that bile acid sequestrants bind niacin. The results suggest that at least 4 to 6 hours should elapse between the ingestion of bile-acid-binding resins and the administration of niacin.
Colestipol: (Major) In vitro studies have shown that bile acid sequestrants bind niacin. The results suggest that at least 4 to 6 hours should elapse between the ingestion of bile-acid-binding resins and the administration of niacin.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Niacinamide interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacinamide is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and quinidine. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with quinidine urinary excretion and increase quinidine exposure and the risk for quinidine-related adverse effects.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Digoxin: (Major) The pharmacodynamic actions of edetate disodium oppose those of the cardiac glycosides.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Niacin (nicotinic acid) interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. When used at daily doses of 750-2000 mg, niacin significantly lowers LDL cholesterol and triglycerides while increasing HDL cholesterol. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients on linagliptin for changes in blood glucose control if niacin (nicotinic acid) is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin (nicotinic acid) interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. When used at daily doses of 750-2000 mg, niacin significantly lowers LDL cholesterol and triglycerides while increasing HDL cholesterol. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients on linagliptin for changes in blood glucose control if niacin (nicotinic acid) is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Niacinamide interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacinamide is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Ethanol: (Moderate) Alcohol-containing beverages or hot beverages/foods can exacerbate cutaneous vasodilation caused by niacin and should be avoided around the time of niacin ingestion.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Fluvastatin: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
Food: (Moderate) Hot beverages and foods can exacerbate cutaneous vasodilation caused by niacin and should be avoided around the time of niacin ingestion. In general, this interaction would not be harmful, but might decrease patient tolerance of niacin.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Gentamicin: (Moderate) Based on the possibility of in vitro antagonism, avoid using sulfacetamide sodium concomitantly with gentamicin sulfate.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of sulfonylureas. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of sulfonylureas. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of sulfonylureas. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of sulfonylureas. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of sulfonylureas. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Avoid the use of urine alkalinizing agents during methenamine therapy. Concomitant use may reduce methenamine efficacy.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Insulins: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Niacin (nicotinic acid) interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. When used at daily doses of 750-2000 mg, niacin significantly lowers LDL cholesterol and triglycerides while increasing HDL cholesterol. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients on linagliptin for changes in blood glucose control if niacin (nicotinic acid) is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin (nicotinic acid) interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. When used at daily doses of 750-2000 mg, niacin significantly lowers LDL cholesterol and triglycerides while increasing HDL cholesterol. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients on linagliptin for changes in blood glucose control if niacin (nicotinic acid) is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Lithium: (Moderate) Moderate to significant dietary sodium changes, or changes in sodium and fluid intake, may affect lithium excretion. Systemic sodium chloride administration may result in increased lithium excretion and therefore, decreased serum lithium concentrations. In addition, high fluid intake may increase lithium excretion. For patients receiving sodium-containing intravenous fluids, symptom control and lithium concentrations should be carefully monitored. It is recommended that patients taking lithium maintain consistent dietary sodium consumption and adequate fluid intake during the initial stabilization period and throughout lithium treatment. Supplemental oral sodium and fluid should be only be administered under careful medical supervision. (Moderate) Monitor for a reduction in lithium efficacy and increase the lithium dosage as appropriate based on response if concomitant use of lithium with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Urinary alkalinizing agents may enhance lithium urinary excretion and reduce lithium serum concentrations.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Losartan: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
Magnesium Citrate: (Major) Administration of oral magnesium citrate with edetate disodium, disodium EDTA may result in binding of magnesium. Do not administer oral magnesium salts within 1 hour of edetate disodium, EDTA.
Magnesium Salts: (Major) Administration of oral magnesium with edetate disodium, disodium EDTA may result in binding of magnesium. Do not administer oral magnesium salts within 1 hour of edetate disodium, EDTA.
Magnesium: (Major) Administration of oral magnesium with edetate disodium, disodium EDTA may result in binding of magnesium. Do not administer oral magnesium salts within 1 hour of edetate disodium, EDTA.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Memantine: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Niacinamide interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacinamide is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Niacinamide interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacinamide is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Methamphetamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Methenamine: (Major) Avoid the use of urine alkalinizing agents during methenamine therapy. Concomitant use may reduce methenamine efficacy.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid the use of urine alkalinizing agents during methenamine therapy. Concomitant use may reduce methenamine efficacy.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Major) Avoid the use of urine alkalinizing agents during methenamine therapy. Concomitant use may reduce methenamine efficacy.
Methoxsalen: (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of sulfonylureas. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Moderate) Niacin may interfere with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Pravastatin: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and quinidine. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with quinidine urinary excretion and increase quinidine exposure and the risk for quinidine-related adverse effects.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for quinine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with quinine urinary excretion and increase quinine exposure and the risk for quinine-related adverse effects.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Red Yeast Rice: (Major) Since compounds in red yeast rice are chemically similar to and possess actions similar to lovastatin, patients should avoid this dietary supplement if they currently take drugs known to increase the risk of myopathy when coadministered with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Niacin (as nicotinic acid, vitamin B3 in antilipemic doses) directly increases the risk of myopathy.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Niacinamide interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacinamide is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Silver Nitrate: (Major) Topical and ophthalmic sulfonamides are incompatible with preparations containing silver. Sulfacetamide sodium should not be applied to the same sites as products containing silver salts, including preparations such as silver nitrate, silver sulfadiazine, or mild silver protein.
Silver Sulfadiazine: (Major) Topical and ophthalmic sulfonamides are incompatible with preparations containing silver. Sulfacetamide sodium should not be applied to the same sites as products containing silver salts, including preparations such as silver nitrate, silver sulfadiazine, or mild silver protein.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Niacinamide interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacinamide is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Major) Administration of oral magnesium with edetate disodium, disodium EDTA may result in binding of magnesium. Do not administer oral magnesium salts within 1 hour of edetate disodium, EDTA.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Succimer: (Major) Concomitant use of succimer and other chelation therapy, such as edetate calcium disodium (calcium EDTA), is not recommended. Patients who have received calcium EDTA, with or without dimercaprol, may receive succimer for subsequent treatment after an interval of 4 weeks.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of sulfonylureas. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added.
Timolol: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Tolvaptan: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Torsemide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Vitamin D: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Voriconazole is metabolized by the CYP2C9 isoenzyme, and drugs that are known to be inhibitors of CYP2C9 may theoretically lead to elevated plasma levels of voriconazole when coadministered. Drugs that are known to be inhibitors of CYP2C9 include sulfonamides.
Zinc Salts: (Major) Concomitant use of zinc supplements with calcium EDTA can decrease the effectiveness of both agents due to chelation. Zinc salts should not be administered until edetate calcium therapy is completed.
Zinc: (Major) Concomitant use of zinc supplements with calcium EDTA can decrease the effectiveness of both agents due to chelation. Zinc salts should not be administered until edetate calcium therapy is completed.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    edema, erythema, pruritus, skin irritation
    General Information
    Mild application site reactions are the more common side effects reported with use of sulfacetamide; sulfur, but appear to occur infrequently. Local skin irritation, including edema, erythema, and pruritus, may develop following topical administration. These reactions are more likely to occur with long-term treatment. If excessive skin irritation develops, discontinue use of the product and initiate appropriate therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      skin irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, contact dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, fever, hemolytic anemia, jaundice, photosensitivity, purpura, Stevens-Johnson syndrome
    General Information
    Although rare, sulfonamide hypersensitivity resulting in systemic adverse reactions may occur following topical administration of sulfacetamide; sulfur. Reactions that indicate a hypersensitivity to sulfonamides include agranulocytosis, acute hemolytic anemia, purpura, fever, jaundice, contact dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and exfoliative dermatitis. These reactions are more likely to occur if the topical product is administered to denuded or abraded skin. Sulfonamides may also cause photosensitivity reactions; proper attention to sun or UV avoidance and use of sunscreens and protective clothing on treated areas can help limit the rare possibility of serious photosensitivity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      contact dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hemolytic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Sulfacetamide and sulfur are used together in a topical preparation to treat acne rosacea, acne vulgaris, and seborrheic dermatitis. Sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide antibiotic. Sulfur is a topical antimicrobial and keratolytic agent that causes a peeling and drying action. Sulfacetamide; sulfur has been historically used in dermatology for many decades, and was initially marketed for use before 1962, which is when Congress passed the amended Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act requiring that the FDA establish both safety and efficacy for all subsequently approved drugs. Sulfacetamide; sulfur is an unapproved marketed drug that has not been formally evaluated by the FDA.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Sulfacetamide; sulfur is used for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris, acne rosacea, and seborrheic dermatitis.
 
Sulfacetamide: Sulfacetamide interferes with bacterial synthesis of folic acid by competitively blocking the incorporation of para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA) into tetrahydropteroic acid. Folic acid is a coenzyme required by bacterial cells for the synthesis of nucleotides and ultimately bacterial cell growth. Sulfacetamide does not affect bacterial cells that use preformed (dietary) folic acid or mammalian cells. Sulfacetamide displays in vitro bacteriostatic activity against Enterobacter species, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae, Klebsiella species, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Streptococcus viridans group.
Sulfur: The exact mechanism of action for sulfur is currently unknown; however, it has been suggested that observed keratolytic activity results from an interaction between sulfur and the cysteine content of keratinocytes. When administered concurrently with sulfacetamide, sulfur inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Topical Route
    Description
    Sulfacetamide: The rate and extent of sulfacetamide absorption through intact skin has not been determined.
Sulfur: Approximately 1% of a topically applied dose of sulfur is absorbed systemically.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Because any systemically absorbed sulfacetamide is excreted substantially by the kidney, the elimination half-life would be prolonged in patients with renal impairment. Topical application is not recommended in patients with renal disease.
  Text
  Sulfacetamide, sulfur is administered topically in a variety of vehicles, including washes, creams, lotions and gels. Some sulfacetamide is absorbed following topical administration, but precise systemic bioavailability is not available for the various products. Systemic absorption would be increased dependent on area of topical application and the presence of denuded or abraded skin. Following systemic absorption, sulfacetamide is eliminated primarily unchanged by the kidneys through glomerular filtration. The half-life of sulfacetamide following oral administration ranges between 7—12.8 hours.

Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    3 applications/day for creams, gels, lotions, and foam; 2 applications/day for washes and cleansers.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    3 applications/day for creams, gels, lotions, and foam; 2 applications/day for washes and cleansers.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    3 applications/day for creams, gels, lotions, and foam; 2 applications/day for washes and cleansers.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    >= 12 years: 3 applications/day for creams, gels, lotions, and foam; 2 applications/day for washes and cleansers.
< 12 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Per the manufacturers, sulfacetamide; sulfur products, including creams, washes and other topical preparations, are not for use by patients with kidney disease.
