=== Belumosudil (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5345)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Belumosudil is an oral rho-associated, coiled-coil containing protein kinase (ROCK)-2 and ROCK-1 inhibitor approved in pediatric patients 12 years and older and adults for the treatment of chronic graft-versus-host disease after failure of at least 2 prior lines of systemic therapy.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 200 mg per day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): colitis, folliculitis, infection, influenza, sinusitis, asthenia, fatigue, malaise, apnea, cough, dyspnea, nasal congestion, bleeding, epistaxis, hematoma, hematuria, ocular hemorrhage, purpura, arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, hyperkalemia, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, anemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Avoid belumosudil therapy in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, including those with hepatic failure, who do not have liver graft-versus-host disease. Monitor liver function tests...

Brand Names
  - REZUROCK

Dosage Forms
  - REZUROCK 200mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        200 mg PO once daily until progression of chronic GVHD that requires new systemic therapy. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        200 mg PO once daily until progression of chronic GVHD that requires new systemic therapy. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after failure of at least 2 prior lines of systemic therapy

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid belumosudil therapy in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, including those with hepatic failure, who do not have liver graft-versus-host disease. Monitor liver function tests including total bilirubin at least once monthly. Therapy interruption or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop hepatotoxicity.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Consider the risks and potential benefits of therapy before starting belumosudil in patients with pre-existing severe renal impairment, including those with renal failure. Use of the drug in this population has not been studied.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Belumosudil may cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no available data on belumosudil use during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk. Fetal malformations including absence of anus and tail, omphalocele, and dome-shaped head were observed in the offspring of pregnant rats who received belumosudil at doses that resulted in drug exposure approximately 1.4-times those reported at clinical human doses. Malformations in the tail (short), ribs (branched, fused, or deformed), sternebrae (fused), and neural arches (fused, misaligned, and deformed) were reported in the offspring of pregnant rabbits who received belumosudil at doses that resulted in drug exposure approximately 0.08-times of those reported at clinical human doses. Increased post-implantation loss was also reported in these animal studies.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with belumosudil. Belumosudil may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others to use effective contraception while taking belumosudil and for 1 week after the last dose. Additionally, male and female infertility has been observed in animal studies.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking belumosudil and for 1 week after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of belumosudil in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. However, belumosudil has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breast-fed child.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Belumosudil may cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no available data on belumosudil use during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk. Fetal malformations including absence of anus and tail, omphalocele, and dome-shaped head were observed in the offspring of pregnant rats who received belumosudil at doses that resulted in drug exposure approximately 1.4-times those reported at clinical human doses. Malformations in the tail (short), ribs (branched, fused, or deformed), sternebrae (fused), and neural arches (fused, misaligned, and deformed) were reported in the offspring of pregnant rabbits who received belumosudil at doses that resulted in drug exposure approximately 0.08-times of those reported at clinical human doses. Increased post-implantation loss was also reported in these animal studies.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with belumosudil. Belumosudil may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others to use effective contraception while taking belumosudil and for 1 week after the last dose. Additionally, male and female infertility has been observed in animal studies.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP, P-gp, and UGT1A1 substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP, P-gp, and UGT1A1 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. If belumosudil is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with belumosudil may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If belumosudil is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. If belumosudil is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If belumosudil is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of belumosudil and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of belumosudil. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. If belumosudil is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If belumosudil is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with belumosudil due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP inhibitor.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and belumosudil due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with belumosudil, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
Apalutamide: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with apalutamide. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of belumosudil. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus belumosudil may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. If belumosudil is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If belumosudil is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atogepant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and belumosudil is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Belinostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of belinostat and belumosudil. If concomitant use is required, reduce the dose of belinostat by 25% (i.e., from 1,000 mg/m2 to 750 mg/m2; from 750 mg/m2 to 562.5 mg/m2; interrupt 500 mg/m2). Concomitant use is expected to increase belinostat exposure which may increase the risk for belinostat-related adverse effects. Belinostat is a UGT1A1 substrate and belumosudil is a UGT1A1 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another UGT1A1 inhibitor increased belinostat overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If belumosudil is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Brincidofovir: (Moderate) Postpone the administration of belumosudil for at least three hours after brincidofovir administration and increase monitoring for brincidofovir-related adverse reactions (i.e., elevated hepatic enzymes and bilirubin, diarrhea, other gastrointestinal adverse events) if concomitant use of brincidofovir and belumosudil is necessary. Brincidofovir is an OATP1B1 substrate and belumosudil is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, the mean AUC and Cmax of brincidofovir increased by 374% and 269%, respectively, when administered with another OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and belumosudil can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when belumosudil is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping belumosudil, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If belumosudil is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and belumosudil is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and belumosudil can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when belumosudil is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping belumosudil, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If belumosudil is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and belumosudil is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with carbamazepine; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration of belumosudil; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may increase carbamazepine concentrations. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and a weak CYP3A inhibitor and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer and a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of belumosudil, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If belumosudil is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with belumosudil and monitor for adverse reactions. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A. Belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with belumosudil may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of belumosudil could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If belumosudil is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Belumosudil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and belumosudil due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration increased dabigatran overall exposure by 2-fold.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP, P-gp, and UGT1A1 substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP, P-gp, and UGT1A1 inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP, P-gp, and UGT1A1 substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP, P-gp, and UGT1A1 inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP, P-gp, and UGT1A1 substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP, P-gp, and UGT1A1 inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with belumosudil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of belumosudil with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of belumosudil with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with belumosudil. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of belumosudil. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of belumosudil; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of reduced efficacy when belumosudil is coadministered with efavirenz; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with efavirenz is predicted to decrease belumosudil exposure by 35% in healthy subjects.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with belumosudil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of reduced efficacy when belumosudil is coadministered with efavirenz; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with efavirenz is predicted to decrease belumosudil exposure by 35% in healthy subjects.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with belumosudil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of reduced efficacy when belumosudil is coadministered with efavirenz; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with efavirenz is predicted to decrease belumosudil exposure by 35% in healthy subjects.
Elagolix: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of elagolix with belumosudil is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase elagolix exposure. Elagolix is a substrate of OATP1B1 and belumosudil is a strong OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of elagolix with belumosudil is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase elagolix exposure. Elagolix is a substrate of OATP1B1 and belumosudil is a strong OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and belumosudil is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with belumosudil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with belumosudil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with belumosudil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with encorafenib. Belumosudil is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with belumosudil due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with enzalutamide. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and belumosudil should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. If belumosudil is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If belumosudil is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or belumosudil; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including belumosudil, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with fosphenytoin. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Ganaxolone: (Moderate) Monitor for ganaxolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with belumosudil is necessary. For those on a stable maintenance dose of ganaxolone, consider a ganaxolone dosage reduction. Concomitant use may increase ganaxolone exposure. Ganaxolone is a UGT substrate and belumosudil is a UGT inhibitor.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and belumosudil as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If belumosudil is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If belumosudil is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If belumosudil is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Irinotecan Liposomal: (Major) Avoid administration of belumosudil during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 1 week prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are UGT1A1 substrates; belumosudil is a UGT1A1 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase systemic exposure to both irinotecan and SN-38.
Irinotecan: (Major) Avoid administration of belumosudil during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 1 week prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are UGT1A1 substrates; belumosudil is a UGT1A1 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase systemic exposure to both irinotecan and SN-38.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with belumosudil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of belumosudil with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; belumosudil may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with belumosudil as concurrent use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and belumosudil; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing belumosudil. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lorazepam-related adverse reactions and consider reducing the dose of lorazepam if concomitant use of lorazepam and belumosudil is necessary. Avoid lorazepam extended-release capsules and utilize lorazepam immediate-release dosage forms that can be easily titrated. Lorazepam is an UGT substrate and belumosudil is an UGT inhibitor.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with belumosudil. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. If belumosudil is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with belumosudil can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. If belumosudil is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with belumosudil can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and belumosudil. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of belumosudil is predicted to increase the midazolam AUC value by approximately 1.5-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with mitotane. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with belumosudil. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and belumosudil. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and belumosudil is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with belumosudil due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Omeprazole: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. If belumosudil is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If belumosudil is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Pantoprazole: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and belumosudil due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit BCRP or P-gp.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib and belumosudil due to the risk of increased pexidartinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. If belumosudil is discontinued, increase the pexidartinib dose to the original dose after 3 plasma half-lives of belumosudil. Pexidartinib is a UGT substrate; belumosudil is a UGT inhibitor. Coadministration of another UGT inhibitor increased pexidartinib exposure by 60%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with phenobarbital. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with phenobarbital. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Phenytoin: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with phenytoin. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and belumosudil. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in posaconazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase posaconazole exposure. Posaconazole is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of belumosudil with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.8-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with primidone. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone, which is metabolized to phenobarbital, is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and belumosudil due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with belumosudil; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and belumosudil with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
RABEprazole: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral belumosudil. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer belumosudil at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of belumosudil is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral belumosudil. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer belumosudil at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of belumosudil is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with belumosudil due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Resmetirom: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of resmetirom and belumosudil due to the risk for increased resmetirom exposure which may increase the risk for resmetirom-related adverse effects. Resmetirom is an OATP1B1 substrate and belumosudil is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
rifAMPin: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with rifampin. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use resulted in decreased belumosudil exposure in a drug interaction study. Decreased belumosudil exposure may lead to reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with rifampin decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Rifapentine: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with rifapentine. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with belumosudil; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and belumosudil. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 5 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 4.6-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and belumosudil. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 5 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 4.6-fold.
Sacituzumab Govitecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sacituzumab govitecan and belumosudil due to the risk of increased sacituzumab govitecan exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of sacituzumab govitecan, SN-38, is metabolized by UGT1A1 and belumosudil is a UGT1A1 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with sacituzumab govitecan have not been conducted but the concomitant use of UGT1A1 inhibitors is expected to increase SN-38 exposure.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in saquinavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase saquinavir exposure. Saquinavir is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and belumosudil due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of belumosudil. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with St. John's wort. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if belumosudil must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. If belumosudil is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like belumosudil can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If belumosudil is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with belumosudil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tipranavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tipranavir exposure. Tipranavir is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of belumosudil with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; belumosudil may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of belumosudil, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of belumosudil, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with belumosudil and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with belumosudil due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of belumosudil. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of belumosudil is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of belumosudil is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with belumosudil is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    colitis, folliculitis, infection, influenza, sinusitis
    General Information
    Infections (53%; Grade 3 or 4, 16%) including viral infection (19%; Grade 3 or 4, 4%) and bacterial infection (16%; Grade 3 or 4, 4%) occurred in adult patients with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). Infections reported include sinusitis, device-related infection, ear infection, folliculitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal infection, hordeolum, infectious colitis, lung infection, skin infection or cellulitis, tooth infection, urinary tract infection, wound infection, pneumonia, conjunctivitis, respiratory tract infection, bronchitis, sepsis, septic shock, influenza, rhinovirus infection, Epstein-Barr virus infection, parainfluenza virus infection, and varicella zoster virus infection.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      folliculitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue, malaise
    General Information
    Asthenia occurred in 46% (Grade 3 or 4, 4%) of adult patients with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). The term asthenia includes fatigue and malaise.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Edema occurred in 27% (Grade 3 or 4, 1%) of adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). The term edema includes peripheral edema, localized edema, and face edema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever occurred in 18% (Grade 3 or 4, 1%) of adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, dysphagia, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse events including nausea (42%; Grade 3 or 4, 4%), diarrhea (35%; Grade 3 or 4, 5%), abdominal pain (22%; Grade 3 or 4, 1%), dysphagia (16%), and decreased appetite or anorexia (17%; Grade 3 or 4, 1%) were reported in adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). The term nausea also includes vomiting.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    apnea, cough, dyspnea, nasal congestion
    General Information
    Dyspnea (33%; Grade 3 or 4, 5%), cough (30%), and nasal congestion (12%) were reported in adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). The term dyspnea includes exertional dyspnea, apnea, orthopnea, and sleep apnea syndrome.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      apnea
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    bleeding, epistaxis, hematoma, hematuria, ocular hemorrhage, purpura
    General Information
    Bleeding occurred in 23% (Grade 3 or 4, 5%) of adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). The term bleeding includes contusion, hematoma, epistaxis, conjunctival or ocular hemorrhage, hematochezia, mouth bleeding, catheter-site hemorrhage, hematuria, hemothorax, and purpura.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypertension, hypotension
    General Information
    Hypertension occurred in 21% (Grade 3 or 4, 7%) of adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). Hypotension was also reported and resulted in a belumosudil dose interruption in 2% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain (22%; Grade 3 or 4, 4%), muscle cramps or spasm (17%), and arthralgia (15%; Grade 3 or 4, 2%) were reported in adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). The term musculoskeletal pain includes extremity pain, back pain, flank pain, limb discomfort, musculoskeletal chest pain, and neck pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    headache, migraine
    General Information
    Headache occurred in 21% of adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). The term headache includes migraine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash
    General Information
    Rash (12%) and pruritus (11%) were reported in adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). The term rash includes maculopapular rash, erythematous rash, and exfoliative dermatitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    renal failure
    General Information
    Grade 2 increased serum creatinine level was reported in 4% of adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). Additionally, renal failure resulted in a belumosudil dose interruption in 2% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Electrolyte abnormalities including hypophosphatemia (Grade 2, 28%; Grade 3 or 4, 7%), hypocalcemia (Grade 2, 12%; Grade 3 or 4, 1%), and hyperkalemia (Grade 2, 7%; Grade 3 or 4, 1%) were reported in adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Liver function test (LFT) abnormalities including elevated hepatic enzymes (i.e., increased ALT level: Grade 2, 7%; Grade 3 or 4, 2%), increased gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) level (Grade 2, 21%; Grade 3 or 4, 11%), and alkaline phosphatase level (Grade 2, 9%) were reported in adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83). Monitor LFTs, including total bilirubin, at least once monthly. Therapy interruption or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe hepatotoxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic toxicities including lymphopenia (Grade 2, 29%; Grade 3 or 4, 13%), anemia (Grade 2, 11%; Grade 3 or 4, 1%), thrombocytopenia (Grade 2, 10%; Grade 3 or 4, 5%), and neutropenia (Grade 2, 8%; Grade 3 or 4, 4%) were reported in adults with chronic GVHD who received belumosudil 200 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 83).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, belumosudil may cause male and female infertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Belumosudil is an oral rho-associated, coiled-coil containing protein kinase (ROCK)-2 and ROCK-1 inhibitor approved in pediatric patients 12 years and older and adults for the treatment of chronic graft-versus-host disease after failure of at least 2 prior lines of systemic therapy. Infection and bleeding have been reported with belumosudil therapy.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Belumosudil is a selective rho-associated, coiled-coil containing protein kinase (ROCK2) inhibitor. It inhibits ROCK1 at an IC50 of approximately 3 micromolar and ROCK2 at an IC50 of approximately 100 nanomolar (0.1 micromolar). By inhibiting ROCK2, belumosudil causes a downregulation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation which prevents the increased expression of Th17-specific transcription factors. Blocking ROCK2 also restores immune homeostasis and shifts the Th17/regulatory T cells (Tregs) balance toward Tregs via an STAT5-dependent mechanism. Additionally, belumosudil inhibited aberrant pro-fibrotic signaling in vitro and demonstrated activity in animal models of chronic GVHD.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The mean bioavailability was 64% (coefficient of variation (CV), 17%) in healthy subjects following a single, oral dose of belumosudil. Maximum concentrations are reached at a median Tmax of 1.26 to 2.53 hours following belumosudil 200 mg once or twice daily. The mean steady-state Cmax and AUC values were 2,390 (CV, 44%) nanogram (ng)/mL and 22,700 (CV, 48%) ng X hour/mL, respectively, in patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease who received belumosudil 200 mg PO once daily. The Cmax and AUC increased approximately proportionally over a dosage range of belumosudil 200 mg and 400 mg; the accumulation ratio was 1.4.
Effects of Food: Administering belumosudil with a high-fat and high-calorie meal resulted in increased Cmax (2.2-fold) and AUC (2-fold) values and a delay in the median Tmax by 0.5 hour when compared with fasting healthy subjects. A high-fat and high-calorie meal consisted of 800 to 1,000 calories with approximately 50% of total caloric content of the meal from fat.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Compared with subjects who had normal hepatic function, AUC values (free + bound) increased by 1.4-fold, 1.5-fold, and 4.2-fold in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh class A), moderate (Child-Pugh class B), and severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment (without liver graft-versus-host disease), respectively, following a single 200-mg dose of oral belumosudil. Additionally, the Cmax value (free + bound) increased by 1.2-fold and 1.3-fold in subjects with mild and severe hepatic impairment, respectively; subjects with moderate hepatic impairment experienced a 6% decrease in the Cmax value compared with subjects with normal hepatic function.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 60 to less than 90 mL/min/1.72 m2) to moderate (eGFR of 30 to less than 60 mL/min/1.72 m2) renal impairment has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of belumosudil. The effect of severe renal impairment on the PK parameters of belumosudil has not been evaluated.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Based on extrapolated population pharmacokinetic data in adults, the exposure of belumosudil is expected to be similar in pediatric patients aged 12 years and older.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (range, 18 to 77 years) has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of belumosudil.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of belumosudil.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Weight (38.6 to 143 kg) has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of belumosudil.
  Text
  Belumosudil is administered orally. It is highly bound to human serum albumin (99.9%) and alfa-1 acid glycoprotein (98.6%) in vitro. The geometric volume of distribution is 184 L (coefficient of variation (CV), 67.7%) following a single dose, the clearance is 9.83 L/hour (CV, 46%), and the mean elimination half-life is 19 hours (CV, 39%). Belumosudil is primarily metabolized via CYP3A; it is metabolized to a lesser extent via CYP2C8, CYP2D6, and UGT1A9 in vitro. In healthy subjects, 85% and less than 5% of the radioactivity was excreted in the feces and urine, respectively, following a single, radiolabeled, oral dose of belumosudil. Unchanged belumosudil accounted for 30% of the radiolabeled excretion product in feces.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes or transporters: CYP3A, UGT1A1, P-gp, OATP1B1, BCRP, CYP1A2
Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and a weak CYP3A inhibitor; it also inhibits CYP1A2, UGT1A1, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATP)1B1, and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). In vitro, belumosudil is a substrate of P-gp and inhibits UGT1A9. Drug interactions may occur with some substrates, such as those medications that are BCRP substrates and OATP1B1 substrates: Certain sensitive CYP1A2, CYP3A, P-gp or UGT1A1 substrates may also be affected by belumosudil use.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take belumosudil with a meal at approximately the same time each day.
Swallow tablets whole; do not cut, crush, or chew tablets.
If a dose is missed, take it as soon as you remember on the same day and then take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time on the next day; do not take extra doses to make up for a missed dose.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    200 mg per day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    200 mg per day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    200 mg per day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 200 mg per day PO.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A): No initial dosage adjustment recommended.Moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment without liver GVHD: Avoid use.
Treatment-Related HepatotoxicityGrade 3 elevated transaminases (AST or ALT levels of 5 to 20 times the ULN) or grade 2 hyperbilirubinemia (bilirubin level of 1.5 to 3 times the ULN): Hold belumosudil therapy; resume therapy at the recommended dosage when the toxicity recovers to grade 1 or less. Grade 4 elevated transaminases (AST or ALT levels more than 20 times the ULN) or grade 3 or higher hyperbilirubinemia (bilirubin level of more than 3 times the ULN): Permanently discontinue belumosudil therapy.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in baseline renal impairment are not available; it appears that no initial dosage adjustments are needed. Belumosudil has not been studied in patients with pre-existing severe renal impairment; consider the risks and potential benefits before initiating belumosudil therapy in these patients.
