=== Repotrectinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5504)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Repotrectinib is a kinase inhibitor which inhibits proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase ROS1 (ROS1) and the tropomyosin receptor tyrosine kinases (TRKs) TRKA, TRKB, and TRKC.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 160 mg PO twice daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): amnesia, aphasia, ataxia, confusion, dizziness, gait disturbance, hallucinations, impaired cognition, memory impairment, vertigo, dysesthesia, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, cough, dyspnea, hypoxia, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, weakness, blepharospasm, blurred vision, cataracts, diplopia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Neurologic adverse reactions have been reported in patients treated with repotrectinib, including dizziness, cognitive impairment, mood disorders, and sleep disturbances. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery or performing activities requiring coordination and concentration if they... Emetic risk: Minimal/Low

Brand Names
  - AUGTYRO

Dosage Forms
  - AUGTYRO 160mg Capsule
  - AUGTYRO 40mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic ROS1-positive NSCLC
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          160 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increase to 160 mg PO twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In a multicenter, single-arm, open-label, multicohort phase 1/2 trial (TRIDENT-1), ROS1 inhibitor-naive patients with ROS1-positive locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC (n = 71) had a confirmed overall response rate (ORR) of 79% (complete response (CR), 6%) for a median duration of 34.1 months; patients who had previously received treatment with another ROS1 inhibitor (n = 56) had a confirmed ORR of 38% (CR, 5%) for a median duration of 14.8 months. The duration of response was 12 months or longer in 70% of ROS1 inhibitor naive patients and in 48% of ROS1 inhibitor pretreated patients. Intracranial responses were observed in 7 of 8 tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)-naive patients with measurable CNS metastases at baseline; 5 of 12 intracranial responses were observed in TKI-pretreated patients with no prior platinum-based chemotherapy. Responses were also observed in patients with TKI resistance mutations.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NTRK gene fusion-positive solid tumors for patients in whom surgical resection is likely to result in severe morbidity and who have progressed after treatment or have no satisfactory alternative therapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          160 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increase to 160 mg PO twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In a multicenter, single-arm, open-label, multicohort phase 1/2 trial (TRIDENT-1), tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)-naive patients with locally advanced or metastatic NTRK gene fusion-positive (NTRK1/2/3) solid tumors (n = 40) had a confirmed overall response rate (ORR) of 59% (complete response [CR], 15%) for a median duration of response not established; 87% of patients had a duration of at least 6 months and 83% had a duration of at least 12 months. In patients who had previously been treated with TKIs (n = 48), the confirmed ORR was 50% (CR, 0%) for a median duration of 9.9 months; 71% of patients had a duration of at least 6 months, 63% had a duration of at least 9 months, and 42% had a duration of at least 12 months. Intracranial responses were observed in 2 of 2 TKI-naive and 3 of 3 TKI-pretreated patients with measurable CNS metastases at baseline.
          Heading
          Adolescents and Children 12 years and older
          Dosage Description
          160 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increase to 160 mg PO twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. The exposure of repotrectinib in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older is expected to result in similar safety and efficacy to adults as demonstrated in the TRIDENT-1 study. The course of locally advanced or metastatic NTRK-positive solid tumors is similar in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age or older to allow extrapolation of data in adult patients to pediatric patients in this age group.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase-positive solid tumors (NRTK gene fusion-positive solid tumors)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Neurologic adverse reactions have been reported in patients treated with repotrectinib, including dizziness, cognitive impairment, mood disorders, and sleep disturbances. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery or performing activities requiring coordination and concentration if they are experiencing neurotoxicity. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if neurologic effects occur.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use repotrectinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with repotrectinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt repotrectinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Pregnancy should be avoided by females of reproductive potential during repotrectinib treatment and for at least 2 months after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled studies in pregnant women, repotrectinib can cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy based on literature reports in humans with congenital mutations leading to changes in tropomyosin receptor tyrosine kinase (TRK) signaling, its mechanism of action, and animal studies. Women who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving repotrectinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Published reports of individuals with congenital mutations in TRK pathway proteins suggest that decreases in TRK-mediated signaling are correlated with obesity, developmental delays, cognitive impairment, insensitivity to pain, and anhidrosis. Oral administration of repotrectinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in fetal malformations at doses approximately 0.3 times the recommended twice daily dose based on BSA; no embryolethality was observed.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, male-mediated teratogenicity, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during repotrectinib treatment. Repotrectinib can be teratogenic if taken by the mother during pregnancy. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy and use effective nonhormonal contraception during and for at least 2 months after treatment with repotrectinib. Females of reproductive potential should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of repotrectinib. Women who become pregnant while receiving repotrectinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, males with female partners of reproductive potential should use effective contraception during and for at least 4 months after treatment with repotrectinib.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from repotrectinib, advise women to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and for 10 days after the final dose. It is not known whether repotrectinib is present in human milk, although many drugs are excreted in human milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Pregnancy should be avoided by females of reproductive potential during repotrectinib treatment and for at least 2 months after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled studies in pregnant women, repotrectinib can cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy based on literature reports in humans with congenital mutations leading to changes in tropomyosin receptor tyrosine kinase (TRK) signaling, its mechanism of action, and animal studies. Women who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving repotrectinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Published reports of individuals with congenital mutations in TRK pathway proteins suggest that decreases in TRK-mediated signaling are correlated with obesity, developmental delays, cognitive impairment, insensitivity to pain, and anhidrosis. Oral administration of repotrectinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in fetal malformations at doses approximately 0.3 times the recommended twice daily dose based on BSA; no embryolethality was observed.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from repotrectinib, advise women to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and for 10 days after the final dose. It is not known whether repotrectinib is present in human milk, although many drugs are excreted in human milk.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Abemaciclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Abrocitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with abrocitinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of dihydrocodeine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of dihydrocodeine as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of dihydrocodeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Repotrectinib is a moderate inducer of CYP3A, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with repotrectinib can decrease dihydrocodeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased dihydromorphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with adagrasib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Aficamten: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and repotrectinib; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If repotrectinib is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inducer like repotrectinib with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with amiodarone due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and decrease clarithromycin exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. CYP3A inducers decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin have a different spectrum of microbiologic activity.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with apalutamide due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Asciminib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with asciminib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with atazanavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concurrent use may also decrease the plasma concentrations of atazanavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; atazanavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with atazanavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concurrent use may also decrease the plasma concentrations of atazanavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; atazanavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with cobicistat due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease cobicistat exposure and efficacy and may lead to the development of viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Atogepant: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and repotrectinib when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with repotrectinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with repotrectinib is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with repotrectinib due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure and peak of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with repotrectinib if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with azithromycin due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in baxdrostat efficacy during concomitant use with repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease baxdrostat exposure. Baxdrostat is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with bedaquiline due to decreased plasma concentrations of bedaquiline which may reduce its efficacy. Bedaquiline is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased bedaquiline exposure by approximately 20%. The overall exposure and peak of the primary metabolite of bedaquiline (M2) were increased by 70% and 80%, respectively.
Belumosudil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with belumosudil due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with berotralstat due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with bexarotene due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and repotrectinib due to the risk for decreased lenacapavir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Repotrectinib exposure may also increase. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with repotrectinib is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day repotrectinib is initiated, a supplemental lenacapavir subcutaneous dose of 463.5 mg should be administered. If repotrectinib is continued beyond 6 months, this supplemental dose should be repeated every 6 months. After repotrectinib discontinuation, resume the standard 6-month lenacapavir injection schedule. Recommendations are not available for individuals already on repotrectinib at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor and repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 56%.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with bosentan due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with brigatinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease brigatinib exposure and reduce efficacy. While concomitant use is not recommended, if use is required, after 7 days of concomitant treatment with repotrectinib, increase the dose of brigatinib as tolerated in 30 mg increments to a maximum of twice the original brigatinib dose. Brigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 50%.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buspirone if repotrectinib is added to a patient on a stable dosage of buspirone; a dose increase of buspirone may be needed to maintain anxiolytic activity. Buspirone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with repotrectinib may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Cabozantinib: (Major) For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, avoid the concomitant use of cabozantinib and repotrectinib. If use is necessary, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg (e.g., 60 mg/day to 80 mg/day; 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day) up to a maximum daily dose of 80 mg. Concomitant use may reduce cabozantinib exposure. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Cannabidiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with cannabidiol due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with repotrectinib due to decreased capivasertib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the capivasertib overall exposure by 60%.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease capmatinib exposure and reduce its efficacy and may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with carbamazepine due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Concomitant use may also decrease carbamazepine exposure. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Carvedilol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with carvedilol due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and carvedilol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with cenobamate due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ceritinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with chloramphenicol due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ciprofloxacin due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and decrease clarithromycin exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. CYP3A inducers decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin have a different spectrum of microbiologic activity.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clozapine effectiveness if coadministered with repotrectinib. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When repotrectinib is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Clozapine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with cobicistat due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease cobicistat exposure and efficacy and may lead to the development of viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobimetinib with repotrectinib as concurrent use may decrease cobimetinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Based on simulations, cobimetinib exposure would decrease by 73% when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with repotrectinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with conivaptan due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Crinecerfont: (Major) Increase the crinecerfont evening dose 2-fold if concomitant use with repotrectinib is necessary. Concomitant use is expected to decrease crinecerfont exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Crinecerfont is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with crizotinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with cyclosporine due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease cyclosporine exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and and moderate CYP3A inducer; cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with dabrafenib due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Danicopan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with danicopan due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and danicopan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Closely monitor for a reduction in dapsone efficacy and signs of hemolytic anemia if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary. Dapsone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of dapsone and increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine (a metabolite associated with hemolysis).
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and repotrectinib. Coadministration may decrease daridorexant exposure and reduce its efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased daridorexant overall exposure by over 50%.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with darunavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease darunavir exposure and efficacy which may increase the risk for viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with cobicistat due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease cobicistat exposure and efficacy and may lead to the development of viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with darunavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease darunavir exposure and efficacy which may increase the risk for viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with cobicistat due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease cobicistat exposure and efficacy and may lead to the development of viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with darunavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease darunavir exposure and efficacy which may increase the risk for viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Deflazacort: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of deflazacort and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may significantly decrease concentrations of 21-desDFZ , the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in loss of efficacy. Deflazacort is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with quinidine due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with diltiazem due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease diltiazem exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; diltiazem is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased diltiazem exposure by 69%.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with repotrectinib may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and repotrectinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and repotrectinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and repotrectinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with repotrectinib due to decreased doxorubicin plasma concentrations. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Inducers of CYP3A may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with repotrectinib due to decreased doxorubicin plasma concentrations. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Inducers of CYP3A may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in dronabinol efficacy if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with dronedarone due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Drospirenone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of duvelisib with repotrectinib. Coadministration may decrease duvelisib exposure and efficacy and may increase repotrectinib exposure and risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. While use is not recommended, if concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of duvelisib on day 12 of coadministration from 25 mg PO twice daily to 40 mg PO twice daily or from 15 mg PO twice daily to 25 mg PO twice daily. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of duvelisib with another moderate CYP3A inducer for 12 days decreased duvelisib exposure by 35%.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with efavirenz due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with efavirenz due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with efavirenz due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with elacestrant. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and may decrease elacestrant exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced elacestrant overall exposure by 55% to 73%.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with elagolix. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and decrease elagolix exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; elagolix is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with elagolix. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and decrease elagolix exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; elagolix is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Coadministration of elbasvir with repotrectinib is not recommended due to decreased exposure of elbasvir, resulting in decreased virologic response. Elbasvir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Major) Concomitant use of grazoprevir and repotrectinib is not recommended due to decreased exposure of grazoprevir, resulting in decreased virologic response. Grazoprevir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ivacaftor due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with eliglustat due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with cobicistat due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease cobicistat exposure and efficacy and may lead to the development of viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of elvitegravir with repotrectinib may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of elvitegravir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with cobicistat due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease cobicistat exposure and efficacy and may lead to the development of viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of elvitegravir with repotrectinib may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of elvitegravir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with repotrectinib may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with repotrectinib may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with enasidenib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with encorafenib due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with repotrectinib due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ensitrelvir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with repotrectinib due to decreased entrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce the entrectinib overall exposure by 56%.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with enzalutamide due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with erdafitinib. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and decrease erdafitinib exposure and efficacy. While use is not recommended, if combination therapy is necessary, an erdafitinib dosage increase is required. If coadministration of erdafitinib and repotrectinib is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with repotrectinib if possible due to the risk of decreased erlotinib efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of erlotinib in 50 mg increments at 2-week intervals as tolerated (maximum dose, 450 mg). Erlotinib is a CYP3A substrate, and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with erythromycin due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with eslicarbazepine due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with etravirine as concomitant use may have an unpredictable effect on repotrectinib overall exposure and may increase the risk for adverse effects or decrease efficacy. Concomitant use may also decrease etravirine exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; etravirine is a CYP3A substrate, moderate CYP3A inducer, and P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased etravirine exposure by approximately 35%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be increased. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with CYP3A inducers may increase the metabolism of everolimus and decrease everolimus blood concentrations.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib with repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease fedratinib exposure and therapeutic response and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Fedratinib is a CYP3A substrate and CYP3A inhibitor; repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of fedratinib with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the overall exposure of fedratinib by 47%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of repotrectinib is necessary. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like repotrectinib with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with fexinidazole due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Finerenone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of finerenone and repotrectinib due to the risk for decreased finerenone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased overall exposure to finerenone by 80%.
Flibanserin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of flibanserin and repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations and reduce efficacy of flibanserin and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Flibanserin is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased flibanserin exposure by approximately 21%.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with fluconazole due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with fluvoxamine due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with fosamprenavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease fosamprenavir exposure and efficacy which may increase the risk for viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with fostamatinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fruquintinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fruquintinib with repotrectinib if possible due to the risk for decreased fruquintinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concomitant use of fruquintinib and repotrectinib is necessary, monitor for decreased efficacy. Fruquintinib is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease fruquintinib exposure by 32%.
Ganaxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ganaxolone and repotrectinib due to the risk of decreased ganaxolone efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing ganaxolone dose without exceeding the maximum daily dose. Ganaxolone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in gepotidacin efficacy if concomitant use of gepotidacin and repotrectinib is necessary; avoid use if gepotidacin is being used to treat gonorrhea. Concurrent use may decrease gepotidacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce gepotidacin overall exposure by 49%.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with gilteritinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and repotrectinib due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after repotrectinib has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with glecaprevir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease glecaprevir exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; glecaprevir is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with pibrentasvir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and pibrentasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during repotrectinib treatment due to the risk of increased repotrectinib exposure and adverse reactions. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
guanFACINE: (Major) A dose increase of extended-release (ER) guanfacine should be considered if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary. Consider doubling the recommended dose of guanfacine if therapy is added to a patient already taking repotrectinib; increase the dose of guanfacine over 1 to 2 weeks if repotrectinib therapy is added to a patient already taking guanfacine. Specific recommendations for immediate-release (IR) guanfacine are not available. Guanfacine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of ibrexafungerp with repotrectinib. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease ibrexafungerp exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ibrutinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ibrutinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and ibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with idelalisib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for increased ifosfamide-related toxicities (e.g., neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity) if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider adjusting the dose of ifosfamide as clinically appropriate. Ifosfamide is metabolized to its active alkylating metabolites by CYP3A; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use may increase the formation of the neurotoxic/nephrotoxic ifosfamide metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with imatinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with imlunestrant due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and repotrectinib. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with isavuconazonium due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Istradefylline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with istradefylline due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with itraconazole due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ivacaftor due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ketoconazole due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and decrease clarithromycin exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. CYP3A inducers decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin have a different spectrum of microbiologic activity.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with lapatinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and lapatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of larotrectinib and repotrectinib due to the risk of decreased larotrectinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, double the dose of larotrectinib and monitor response. If repotrectinib is discontinued, resume the original larotrectinib dose after 3 to 5 elimination half-lives of repotrectinib. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease larotrectinib exposure by 72%.
Lasmiditan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with lasmiditan due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lazertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ledipasvir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and ledipasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with repotrectinib as concurrent use may decrease lefamulin exposure and efficacy. Oral lefamulin may also increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Lefamulin is a CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and repotrectinib as concurrent use may decrease lemborexant exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and repotrectinib due to the risk for decreased lenacapavir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Repotrectinib exposure may also increase. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with repotrectinib is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day repotrectinib is initiated, a supplemental lenacapavir subcutaneous dose of 463.5 mg should be administered. If repotrectinib is continued beyond 6 months, this supplemental dose should be repeated every 6 months. After repotrectinib discontinuation, resume the standard 6-month lenacapavir injection schedule. Recommendations are not available for individuals already on repotrectinib at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor and repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 56%.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease leniolisib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced leniolisib overall exposure by 58%.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with letermovir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Levacetylleucine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with levacetylleucine due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ketoconazole due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Lomitapide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with lomitapide due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and repotrectinib is contraindicated; concurrent use may decrease lonafarnib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ritonavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease ritonavir exposure and efficacy which may increase the risk for viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and and moderate CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A inducer and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lopinavir if concurrent repotrectinib use is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease lopinavir exposure and increase the risk of virologic failure and drug resistance. Lopinavir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and repotrectinib. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of both medications and reduce their efficacy. While use is not recommended, if concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Both medications are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inducers. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ivacaftor due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concomitant use may have an unpredictable effect on repotrectinib overall exposure and reduce repotrectinib efficacy or increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concomitant use may have an unpredictable effect on repotrectinib overall exposure and reduce repotrectinib efficacy or increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and repotrectinib as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) If lurasidone is used with repotrectinib, it may be necessary to increase the lurasidone dose after chronic treatment (7 days or more) with repotrectinib. Concurrent use may lead to a decrease in efficacy of lurasidone. Lurasidone is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Maraviroc: (Major) Increase the adult dose of maraviroc to 600 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with repotrectinib without a concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of maraviroc and repotrectinib is contraindicated in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/min. For pediatric patients, the concomitant use of maraviroc with repotrectinib without also taking a strong CYP3A inhibitor is not recommended. If the adult or pediatric patient's medication regimen also contains a strong CYP3A inhibitor, the CYP3A inhibitor's actions are expected to exceed that of repotrectinib; overall, increased maraviroc concentrations are expected (see recommended dose adjustments for use of maraviroc with the strong inhibitor). Maraviroc is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Maribavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with maribavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavacamten: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with repotrectinib due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with mavorixafor due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Mefloquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with mefloquine due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease mefloquine exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; mefloquine is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with mifepristone due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease mitapivat exposure and efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. While use is not recommended, if concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhitibor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with mitotane due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and repotrectinib. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with nafcillin due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with nefazodone due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with nelfinavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease nelfinavir exposure and efficacy which may increase the risk for viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; nelfinavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Nerandomilast: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nerandomilast efficacy if concomitant use with repotrectinib is necessary; use a nerandomilast dosage of 18 mg twice daily and avoid a nerandomilast dosage reduction. Concurrent use may decrease nerandomilast exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased nerandomilast overall exposure by 41%.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of repotrectinib with neratinib. Concomitant use may decrease neratinib exposure and efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Neratinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Simulations using physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models suggest that another moderate CYP3A inducer may decrease neratinib exposure by 52%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with netupitant due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with nilotinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ritonavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease ritonavir exposure and efficacy which may increase the risk for viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and and moderate CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A inducer and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of repotrectinib is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and repotrectinib may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease nirogacestat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce nirogacestat overall exposure by 67%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with repotrectinib as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with repotrectinib due to the risk of decreasing the efficacy of olaparib. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may decrease olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the olaparib Cmax by 31% and the AUC by 60%.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of olutasidenib and repotrectinib due to the risk of decreased olutasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Olutasidenib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with rifabutin due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in orforglipron efficacy during concomitant use of orforglipron and repotrectinib; consider an orforglipron dosage increase as appropriate based on response. Concomitant use may decrease orforglipron exposure. Orforglipron is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce orforglipron overall exposure by 61%.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with osimertinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and osimertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Oveporexton: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oveporexton and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease oveporexton exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce oveporexton overall exposure by 73%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and repotrectinib. Coadministration may have an unpredictable effect on the repotrectinib overall exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or increased toxicity. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease palovarotene exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in paltusotine efficacy during concomitant use of paltusotine and repotrectinib; increase the paltusotine dosage as appropriate based on response. When increasing the paltusotine dosage, do not exceed 2x the prior dose or 120 mg daily, whichever is less. Concomitant use may decrease paltusotine exposure. Paltusotine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce paltusotine overall exposure by 30%.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and repotrectinib due to the risk of decreased pemigatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease pemigatinib exposure by more than 50%.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Perampanel: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to repotrectinib therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If repotrectinib is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with pexidartinib due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with repotrectinib as concurrent use may decrease pimavanserin exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the exposure of pimavanserin by approximately 70%.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of pirtobrutinib and repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease pirtobrutinib exposure and efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. While use is not recommended, if concomitant use is necessary, an empiric pirtobrutinib dosage increase is required. If the current pirtobrutinib dosage is 200 mg once daily, increase the dose to 300 mg; if the current dosage is 50 mg or 100 mg once daily, increase the dose by 50 mg. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inducers reduced pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 27% and 49%.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with posaconazole due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of repotrectinib and pralsetinib due to the risk of decreased pralsetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the current dose of pralsetinib (400 mg to 600 mg; 300 mg to 500 mg; 200 mg to 300 mg) starting on day 7 of coadministration. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the pralsetinib overall exposure by 45%.
Praziquantel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of praziquantel and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease praziquantel exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for reduced response to praziquantel. Praziquantel is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. When praziquantel was administered after 13 days of treatment with a moderate CYP3A inducer, the mean praziquantel AUC was 77% lower than when praziquantel was given alone.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease pretomanid exposure and efficacy and may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Pretomanid is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with primaquine due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Progestins: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Propafenone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with propafenone due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and propafenone is a P-gp inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with quinidine due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with quinine due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and quinine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Quizartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of repotrectinib with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ranolazine with repotrectinib is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ranolazine exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Ranolazine is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of repotrectinib with relacorilant due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease relacorilant exposure. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer, and relacorilant is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure, reducing its efficacy, and increase repotrectinib exposure, increasing the risk of repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Revumenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease revumenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additionally, concomitant use may increase exposure to M1, the active metabolite of revumenib, which may increase the risk for adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ribociclib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ribociclib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with rifabutin due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with rifampin due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with rifapentine due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with repotrectinib may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, potentially reducing rilzabrutinib efficacy, and may increase repotrectinib exposure, increasing the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with repotrectinib; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ripretinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ripretinib with repotrectinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the frequency of ripretinib dosing from 150 mg once daily to 150 mg twice daily; monitor for clinical response and tolerability. Resume once daily dosing of ripretinib 14 days after discontinuation of repotrectinib. Coadministration is predicted to decrease the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may decrease ripretinib anti-tumor activity. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Drug interaction modeling studies suggest coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer may decrease ripretinib exposure by 56%.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ritlecitinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ritonavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease ritonavir exposure and efficacy which may increase the risk for viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and and moderate CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A inducer and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Rolapitant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with rolapitant due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and rolapitant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with saquinavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease saquinavir exposure and efficacy which may increase the risk for viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; saquinavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Sarecycline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with sarecycline due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and sarecycline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease sebetralstat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced sebetralstat overall exposure by 79%.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of repotrectinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on repotrectinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease selpercatinib exposure and efficacy and may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease selpercatinib exposure by 40% to 70%.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and repotrectinib due to the risk of decreased selumetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selumetinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease selumetinib exposure by 38%.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease sevabertinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy, and increase repotrectinib exposure, which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and repotrectinib is not recommended for patients with CYP2C9*1/*3 and *2/*3 genotypes due to a significant decrease in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Across different CYP2C9 genotypes, a moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of siponimod by up to 52% according to in silico evaluation.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with taurursodiol due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with velpatasvir. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and may decrease velpatasvir exposure which may result in loss of antiviral efficacy. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; velpatasvir is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with velpatasvir. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and may decrease velpatasvir exposure which may result in loss of antiviral efficacy. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; velpatasvir is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with voxilaprevir. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and decrease voxilaprevir exposure and antiviral efficacy. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; voxilaprevir is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of solifenacin if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary. Solifenacin is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and repotrectinib; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with sorafenib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and sorafenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with sotorasib. Sotorasib may have an unpredictable effect on repotrectinib overall exposure and may decrease repotrectinib efficacy or increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with sparsentan due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with St. John's Wort due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Stiripentol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with stiripentol due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and stiripentol is a P-gp inhibitor.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if repotrectinib must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; a tacrolimus dose adjustment may be needed. Concurrent administration may decrease tacrolimus concentrations. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tazemetostat and repotrectinib due to the risk for decreased tazemetostat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Temsirolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with temsirolimus due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tepotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with tepotinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ivacaftor due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with tipranavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease tipranavir exposure and efficacy which may increase the risk for viral resistance. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; tipranavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with verapamil due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Trofinetide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with trofinetide due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with tucatinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with repotrectinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 69% and 73%, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 69% and 73%, respectively.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with vemurafenib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and vemurafenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid coadministration of venetoclax with repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease venetoclax exposure and efficacy and may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Venetoclax is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with vepdegestrant due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with verapamil due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Vimseltinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with vimseltinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voclosporin with repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease voclosporin exposure and efficacy and may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Voclosporin is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease voclosporin exposure by 70%.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and repotrectinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and repotrectinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and decrease clarithromycin exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. CYP3A inducers decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin have a different spectrum of microbiologic activity. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and repotrectinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with voriconazole due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease voriconazole exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; voriconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. While use is not recommended, if coadministration is necessary, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with repotrectinib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with xanomeline due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of zanubrutinib and repotrectinib due to the risk of decreased zanubrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase zanubrutinib dose to 320 mg twice daily and monitor response. Resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib if repotrectinib is discontinued. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased zanubrutinib exposure by 44%.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Zoliflodacin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of zoliflodacin and repotrectinib is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased zoliflodacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zoliflodacin is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce zoliflodacin overall exposure by 41%.
Zonisamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with zonisamide due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and zonisamide is a P-gp inhibitor.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    amnesia, aphasia, ataxia, confusion, dizziness, gait disturbance, hallucinations, impaired cognition, memory impairment, vertigo
    General Information
    Repotrectinib caused central nervous system (CNS) adverse reactions in 77% (grade 3 or 4, 4.5%) of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426). Dizziness including vertigo was reported in 66% of these patients (grade 3 or 4, 2.8%) with a median time to onset of 7 days, and ataxia including gait disturbance and balance disorder in 28% (grade 3, 0.5%) with a median time to onset of 15 days. Impaired cognition occurred in 25% (grade 3 or 4, 0.9%) of patients in the pooled safety population with a median time to onset of 37 days, including memory impairment (15%), attention disturbances (12%), and confusion (2%); amnesia, delirium, aphasia, hallucinations, mental status changes, and neurological decompensation were also reported. The incidence of CNS adverse reactions was similar in patients with and without CNS metastases. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery if they experience central nervous system (CNS) adverse reactions while taking repotrectinib. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients who develop CNS effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      aphasia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gait disturbance
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anxiety, mania
    General Information
    Mood disorders occurred in 6% of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426) including anxiety (2.6%); grade 4 mood disorders (mania) occurred in 0.2% of patients. The incidence of these adverse reactions was similar in patients with and without CNS metastases.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    insomnia
    General Information
    Sleep disorders occurred in 18% of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426) including somnolence (9%), insomnia (6%), and hypersomnia (1.6%). The incidence of these adverse reactions was similar in patients with and without CNS metastases.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysgeusia
    General Information
    Dysgeusia occurred in 54% of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426) including ageusia, anosmia, and hypogeusia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysesthesia, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy was reported in 49% of patients with ROS1-positive NSCLC in a multicohort phase 1/2 clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 1.4%), including neuralgia, dysesthesia, sensory neuropathy, motor neuropathy, polyneuropathy, paresthesias, hypoesthesia, and hyperesthesia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    headache, migraine
    General Information
    Mild (grade 1 or 2) headache was reported in 19% of patients with ROS1-positive NSCLC in a multicohort phase 1/2 clinical trial, including migraine and tension headache.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, hypoxia, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Dyspnea (30%; grade 3 or 4, 6%) and cough (18%; grade 3 or 4, 0.2%) were reported in patients with ROS1-positive NSCLC in a multicohort phase 1/2 clinical trial; serious cases of hypoxia occurred in 2.6% of patients. Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis occurred in 3.1% (grade 3 or 4, 1.2%) of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from this trial (n = 426) with a median time to onset of 45 days. Monitor patients for new or worsening pulmonary symptoms and interrupt therapy for evaluation if they occur; permanently discontinue repotrectinib if a diagnosis of ILD/pneumonitis is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity has occurred in patients treated with repotrectinib. Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (38%; grade 3 or 4, 3.3%), AST (41%; grade 3 or 4, 2.9%), increased GGT (50%; grade 3 or 4, 13%), and increased alkaline phosphatase (29%; grade 3 or 4, 2.1) were reported in patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426) with a median time to onset of 15 days; hyperbilirubinemia leading to dose interruptions occurred in 0.5% of patients. Monitor liver function tests every 2 weeks for the first month of treatment, and then monthly thereafter and as clinically indicated. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity of hepatotoxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, weakness
    General Information
    Myalgia occurred in 13% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%) of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426) including myositis, musculoskeletal discomfort, and musculoskeletal pain, with a median time to onset of 19 days; concurrent myalgia and increases of creatine phosphokinase (CPK) within a 7-day window occurring in 3.7% of patients. Muscle weakness (20%; grade 3 or 4, 2%) and increased CPK (61%; grade 3 or 4, 7%) were also reported. Advise patients to report any unexplained symptoms of myopathy including muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness; myalgia with or without an associated increase in creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) has been reported in patients treated with repotrectinib. Monitor serum CPK levels every 2 weeks for the first month of treatment and then as needed in patients with unexplained symptoms. If myopathy occurs, initiate supportive care as clinically indicated; an interruption of therapy or dose reduction may be necessary based on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperuricemia
    General Information
    Hyperuricemia occurred in 5% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%) of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426); one patient without pre-existing gout required urate-lowering medication. An increase from baseline in urate occurred in 23% of patients who received repotrectinib (grade 3 or 4, 12%). Monitor serum uric acid levels at baseline and periodically during treatment. If hyperuricemia occurs, initiate treatment with urate-lowering medications as clinically indicated; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bone fractures
    General Information
    Bone fractures occurred in 2.3% of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426), including those of the ribs and feet (0.5% each), and those of the spine, acetabulum, sternum, and ankles (0.2% each); the median time to fracture was 71 days. In an ongoing open-label study in pediatric patients (n = 26), an ankle/foot fracture occurred in one 12 year old patient, and a stress fracture occurred in one 10 year old patient. Clinically relevant falls were reported in 3.8% of patients who received repotrectinib. Promptly evaluate patients with signs or symptoms of fractures including pain, changes in mobility, and deformity. There are no data on the effects of repotrectinib on the healing of known fractures and the risk of future fractures.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bone fractures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue including asthenia was reported in 30% of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors (grade 3 or 4, 1.2%) in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Constipation (38%; grade 3 or 4, 0.2%), nausea (20%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), diarrhea (14%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), and vomiting (12%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2%) were reported in patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Edema was reported in 15% of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a phase 1/2 clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.5%), including periorbital edema, facial edema, peripheral edema, generalized edema, eye edema, and scrotal edema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    weight gain
    General Information
    Weight gain was reported in 16% of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a phase 1/2 clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blepharospasm, blurred vision, cataracts, diplopia, hematoma, night blindness, ocular pain, photophobia, photosensitivity, visual impairment, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Visual impairment was reported in 12% of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors (grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) in a phase 1/2 clinical trial including blurred vision, xerophthalmia, visual field defect, cataracts, conjunctivitis, ocular pain, photophobia, photosensitivity, reduced visual acuity, vitreous floaters, blepharospasm, color blindness, diplopia, eye hematoma, eye swelling, eyelid disorder, eyelid pruritus, glaucoma, night blindness, and ophthalmic herpes zoster.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blepharospasm
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cataracts
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      night blindness
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      photophobia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    conjunctivitis, fever, infection
    General Information
    Infection has been reported in patients treated with repotrectinib in clinical trials, including pneumonia in 11% of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors (grade 3 or 4, 6%) in a phase 1/2 clinical trial; conjunctivitis and ocular herpes zoster have also been reported. Fever occurred in 9.2% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
    Headline
    pleural effusion
    General Information
    Pleural effusion occurred in 2.8% of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a phase 1/2 clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia
    General Information
    Anemia, lymphopenia, and neutropenia have been reported in patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a pooled safety population from a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426), including decreases from baseline in hemoglobin (79%; grade 3 or 4, 8.4%), lymphocytes (43%; grade 3 or 4, 10%), and neutrophils (34%; grade 3 or 4, 9%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    prolonged bleeding time
    General Information
    Prolonged bleeding time was reported in patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a phase 1/2 clinical trial, including increased aPTT (26%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) and increased INR (24%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      prolonged bleeding time
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated with repotrectinib, with an increase from baseline in glucose reported in 26% (grade 3 or 4, 2.4%) and a decrease from baseline in glucose reported in 20% (grade 3 or 4, 0.2%) of patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors in a phase 1/2 clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Hypernatremia, hypophosphatemia, hyperkalemia have been reported in patients with ROS1-positive solid tumors treated with repotrectinib in a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426) including increases from baseline in sodium (33%; grade 3 or 4, 0.2%) and potassium (22%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), and decreases from baseline in phosphate levels (22%; grade 3 or 4, 6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypernatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia
    General Information
    Decreased appetite/anorexia was reported in 11% of patients with ROS-1 positive solid tumors (grade 3 or 4, 0.2%) in a phase 1/2 clinical trial (n = 426).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Repotrectinib is a kinase inhibitor which inhibits proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase ROS1 (ROS1) and the tropomyosin receptor tyrosine kinases (TRKs) TRKA, TRKB, and TRKC. It is FDA-approved for the treatment of adults with locally advanced or metastatic ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors with an NTRK gene fusion (NTRK1/2/3) where surgical resection is likely to result n severe morbidity and in patients who have progressed after treatment or who have no satisfactory alternative therapy. Central nervous system (CNS) adverse reactions occur in 75% of patients; advise patients against driving or operating machinery if they are experiencing CNS effects.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Repotrectinib is an inhibitor of proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase ROS1 (ROS1) and of the tropomyosin receptor tyrosine kinases (TRKs) TRKA, TRKB, and TRKC. Fusion proteins that include ROS1 or TRK domains can drive tumorigenic potential through hyperactivation of downstream signaling pathways leading to unconstrained cell proliferation. Repotrectinib exhibited anti-tumor activity in cultured cells expressing ROS1 fusions and mutations including SDC4-ROS1, SDC4-ROS1 (G2032R), CD74-ROS1, CD74-ROS1 (G2032R), CD74-ROS1 (D2033N), and CD74-ROS1 (L2026M). Additionally, repotrectinib inhibited cell proliferation in cultured cells expressing NTRK fusions and mutations including LMNA-TRKA, LMNA-TRKA (G595R), EVT6-TRKB (G639R), and ETV6-TRKC (G623R).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The geometric mean absolute bioavailability of repotrectinib is 45.7% (CV, 19.6%). The geometric mean peak concentration (Cmax) of repotrectinib at steady-state is 713 ng/mL (CV, 32.5%) and the AUC is 7,210 ng x hour/mL (CV, 40.1%) after administration of 160 mg PO twice daily. The time to Cmax (Tmax) is approximately 2 to 3 hours after a single dose of 40 mg to 240 mg under fasting conditions. The Cmax and AUC of repotrectinib increase in an approximately dose-proportional manner over the single dose range of 40 mg to 240 mg (but less than linear with estimated slopes of 0.78 and 0.7, respectively). Steady-state is achieved within 14 days of daily administration of 160 mg. A high-fat meal (approximately 800 to 1,000 calories, 50% fat) does not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of repotrectinib.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin 1.1 to 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or AST greater than ULN) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of repotrectinib. The effect of moderate (total bilirubin 1.1 to 3 times ULN with any AST) or severe (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN with any AST) hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of repotrectinib is either not known or not fully characterized.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of repotrectinib. The effect of severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min), kidney failure, or dialysis on the pharmacokinetics of repotrectinib is either not known or not fully characterized.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Age (12 to 17 years) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of repotrectinib.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (18 to 93 years) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of repotrectinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of repotrectinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race/ethnicity (Caucasian, 50%; Asian, 38%; Black, 7%) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of repotrectinib.
  Text
  Repotrectinib is administered orally. It is 95.4% bound to plasma protein in vitro; the blood to plasma ratio was 0.56. The geometric mean apparent volume of distribution was 432 liters (CV, 55.9%) in patients with cancer after a single 160-mg dose. The time-dependent elimination of repotrectinib is due to autoinduction of CYP3A4, with a mean terminal half-life of approximately 60.7 hours after a single dose and 40.3 hours at steady-state; the geometric mean apparent oral clearance was 15.9 liters/hour (CV, 45.5%). After a single radiolabeled dose, 4.84% was recovered in the urine (0.56% as unchanged drug) and 88.8% in the feces (50.6% as unchanged drug).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4/5, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, UGT1A1, BCRP, OATP1B1, and MATE2
Repotrectinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 followed by secondary glucuronidation; it is also a P-gp substrate. It induces CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, and CYP2C9. It inhibits CYP3A4/5 in the GI tract as well as UGT1A1, P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, and MATE2K.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take repotrectinib at approximately the same time each day, with or without food.
Swallow repotrectinib capsules whole. Do not open, chew, crush, or dissolve the capsules. Do not take any repotrectinib capsules that are broken, cracked, damaged.
If the patient misses a dose of repotrectinib or if vomiting occurs at any time, skip the dose and resume treatment with the next scheduled dose.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    160 mg PO twice daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    160 mg PO twice daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    160 mg PO twice daily.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years and older: 160 mg PO twice daily.
11 years and younger: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin 1.1 to 1.5 times ULN or AST/ALT greater than ULN): No dosage modification is recommended.
Moderate (total bilirubin 1.6 to 3 times ULN with any AST) to severe (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN with any AST) hepatic impairment: The recommended dosage of repotrectinib has not been established.
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
Grade 3: Hold repotrectinib therapy. If liver function tests resolve to grade 1 or less (or baseline) within 4 weeks, resume repotrectinib therapy at the same dose for the first occurrence of grade 3 hepatotoxicity and at a reduced dose for recurrent grade 3 hepatotoxicity.
Grade 4: Hold repotrectinib therapy. If liver function tests resolve to grade 1 or less (or baseline) within 4 weeks, resume repotrectinib therapy at a reduced dose. Permanently discontinue therapy if resolution does not occur within 4 weeks or for recurrent grade 4 hepatotoxicity.
ALT or AST greater than 3 times ULN with concurrent total bilirubin greater than 1.5 times ULN in the absence of cholestasis or hemolysis: Permanently discontinue repotrectinib therapy.
  Renal Impairment
  Baseline Renal Impairment
Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 90 mL/min): No dosage modification is recommended.
Severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min) or dialysis: The recommended dosage of repotrectinib has not been established.
