=== Dordaviprone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5619)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Dordaviprone is a protease activator of the mitochondrial caseinolytic protease P (CIpP) and an inhibitor of the dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 625 mg PO once weekly.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): ataxia, cranial nerve palsies, dysarthria, paresis, tremor, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, chest pain (unspecified), musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, acneiform rash, atopic dermatitis, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, rash, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, heart failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation... Emetic risk: Minimal/Low

Brand Names
  - MODEYSO

Dosage Forms
  - MODEYSO 125mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of diffuse midline glioma harboring an H3 K27M mutation in patients with progressive disease following prior therapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          625 mg PO once weekly until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In an integrated efficacy population of adult and pediatric patients (n = 50) across 5 open-label, nonrandomized clinical trials, the overall response rate (ORR) was 22% and the median duration of response (DOR) was 10.3 months. The median time to response was 3.6 months. Among the patients with objective responses, 73% had a DOR of 6 months or greater and 27% had a DOR of 12 months or greater.
          Heading
          Children and Adolescents 1 year and older, weighing at least 10 kg
          Dosage Description
          Recommended dosage is based on body weight. For weight 10 kg to less than 12.5 kg, 125 mg PO once weekly; for weight 12.5 kg to less than 27.5 kg, 250 mg PO once weekly; for weight 27.5 kg to less than 42.5 kg, 375 mg PO once weekly; for weight 42.5 kg to less than 52.5 kg, 500 mg PO once weekly; for weight 52.5 kg or greater, 625 mg PO once weekly; continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In an integrated efficacy population of adult and pediatric patients (n = 50) across 5 open-label, non-randomized clinical trials, the overall response rate (ORR) was 22% and the median duration of response (DOR) was 10.3 months. The median time to response was 3.6 months. Among the patients with objective responses, 73% had a DOR of 6 months or greater and 27% had a DOR of 12 months or greater.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of malignant glioma

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, heart failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias
    General Information
    Avoid use of dordaviprone in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Increase the frequency of monitoring in patients with congenital long QT syndrome, existing QTc prolongation, a history of ventricular arrhythmias, electrolyte abnormalities, heart failure, those who are taking strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or other products that have a known potential to prolong the QT interval.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of dordaviprone during pregnancy. Dordaviprone can cause fetal harm, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. In an embryo-fetal development study, pregnant rats and rabbits given dordaviprone during organogenesis caused embryo-fetal mortality, alterations to growth, and structural abnormalities at exposures below the human exposure at the highest recommended dose. Apprise pregnant individuals receiving dordaviprone of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with dordaviprone. Dordaviprone may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking dordaviprone and for 1 month after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during dordaviprone treatment and for 1 month after the last dose. Based on the mechanism of action (dopamine D2 receptor inhibition and alterations to mitochondrial function), treatment with dordaviprone may cause male and female infertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during dordaviprone treatment and for 1 week the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of dordaviprone or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of dordaviprone during pregnancy. Dordaviprone can cause fetal harm, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. In an embryo-fetal development study, pregnant rats and rabbits given dordaviprone during organogenesis caused embryo-fetal mortality, alterations to growth, and structural abnormalities at exposures below the human exposure at the highest recommended dose. Apprise pregnant individuals receiving dordaviprone of the potential hazard to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during dordaviprone treatment and for 1 week the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of dordaviprone or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and adagrasib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and amiodarone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Apomorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and atazanavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and atazanavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and cobicistat due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and avacopan due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and berotralstat due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ceritinib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ciprofloxacin due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and clofazimine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and clozapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and cobicistat due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and conivaptan due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and crizotinib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and cyclosporine due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and darunavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and cobicistat due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and darunavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and cobicistat due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and darunavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Dasatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and dasatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Degarelix: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and dexmedetomidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and diltiazem due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and dronedarone due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and duvelisib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased dordaviprone exposure and efficacy and additive risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased dordaviprone exposure and efficacy and additive risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased dordaviprone exposure and efficacy and additive risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Eliglustat: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and eliglustat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and cobicistat due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and cobicistat due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and encorafenib due to the risk for decreased dordaviprone exposure and efficacy and additive risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and erythromycin due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and fedratinib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased dordaviprone exposure and efficacy and additive risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and fingolimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and fluconazole due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of dordaviprone and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and fluvoxamine due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and fosamprenavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and dordaviprone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and dordaviprone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and gemifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and gemtuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and gepotidacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and givinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Goserelin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Granisetron: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and granisetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during dordaviprone treatment due to the risk of increased dordaviprone exposure and adverse reactions. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and haloperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and hydroxyzine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and idelalisib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and imatinib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and inotuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and isavuconazonium due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and itraconazole due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Lapatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and lapatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lefamulin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and lefamulin due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and letermovir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg. If letermovir is coadministered with cyclosporine, further reduce the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly. The dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold while use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Leuprolide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and lonafarnib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and lopinavir; ritonavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, lopinavir; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ritonavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and mefloquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and mifepristone due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and nefazodone due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and nelfinavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and netupitant due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and nilotinib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ritonavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and nirogacestat due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased dordaviprone exposure and efficacy and additive risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pasireotide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of dordaviprone and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of dordaviprone and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and posaconazole due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and dordaviprone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of dordaviprone and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and ranolazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and relacorilant due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and revumenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ribociclib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, a dordaviprone dose reduction is required. If receiving ribociclib 400 mg/day decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg. If receiving ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day, further decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly. The dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 600 mg/day, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold while use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ribociclib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, a dordaviprone dose reduction is required. If receiving ribociclib 400 mg/day decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg. If receiving ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day, further decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly. The dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 600 mg/day, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold while use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
risperiDONE: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and risperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ritonavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and saquinavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and sertraline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Solifenacin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and solifenacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
SUNItinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and sunitinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and tacrolimus increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and tamoxifen increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and tipranavir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Tolterodine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and tolterodine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and verapamil due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of dordaviprone and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and tucatinib due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and vardenafil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and venlafaxine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and dordaviprone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and verapamil due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Voclosporin: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and voclosporin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and voriconazole due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Vorinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and voxelotor due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and dordaviprone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and dordaviprone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions
    General Information
    Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylactoid reactions can occur with dordaviprone therapy. Grade 3 hypersensitivity reactions occurred in 0.3% of patients receiving dordaviprone in a pooled safety population. Signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity may include hives, rash, low blood pressure, wheezing, or swelling of the face or throat. If hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis occurs, an interruption in therapy or permanent discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    Dordaviprone causes concentration-dependent QTc interval prolongation, which can increase the risk for ventricular tachyarrhythmias or sudden death. Of 82 patients who underwent at least on post-baseline ECG assessment in a pooled safety population, 6% experienced an increase in QTc of more than 60 msec compared to baseline after receiving dordaviprone; 1.2% of patients in the same population had an increase in QTc to more than 500 msec. Significant QT prolongation may occur when dordaviprone is taken concomitantly with other products that have known potential to prolong the QT interval; if use cannot be avoided, separate administration of dordaviprone and the QT-prolonging product. Increase the frequency of monitoring when dordaviprone is administered in patients taking other QT-prolonging products and in patients with congenital long QT syndrome, existing QTc prolongation, a history of ventricular arrhythmias, electrolyte abnormalities, heart failure, or who are taking strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors. If QT prolongation occurs, an interruption in therapy or dose reduction may be necessary depending on severity; permanently discontinue therapy for signs of life-threatening arrhythmias.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue, including asthenia, was reported in 34% (grade 3 or 4, 3.2%) of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    gait disturbance
    General Information
    Gait disturbance was reported in 16% (grade 3 or 4, 3.7%) of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      gait disturbance
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    Headache, including head discomfort and sinus headache, occurred in 32% (grade 3 or 4, 4.3%) of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials; dizziness was reported in 13% (grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) of patients in the same population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    ataxia, cranial nerve palsies, dysarthria, dysphagia, paresis, tremor
    General Information
    Ataxia (10%; grade 3 or 4, 1.3%), dysarthria (13%; grade 3 or 4, 2.7%), dysphagia (13%; grade 3 or 4, 2.1%), hemiparesis (15%; grade 3 or 4, 4.5%), and tremor (less than 10%) were reported in patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials. Cranial nerve palsies/nerve disorders were reported in 16% (grade 3 or 4, 1.3%) of patients in the same population. The term cranial nerve disorder included accessory nerve disorder, auditory nerve disorder, facial nerve disorder, facial paralysis, facial paresis, glossopharyngeal nerve disorder, hypoglossal nerve disorder, IIIrd nerve disorder/paralysis, IVth nerve disorder/paralysis, tongue paralysis, trigeminal nerve disorder, trigeminal neuralgia, VIth nerve disorder/paralysis, and VIth nerve paresis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cranial nerve palsies
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea (24%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%), vomiting (24%; grade 3 or 4, 2.7%), constipation (11%), and diarrhea (less than 10%) were reported in patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, chest pain (unspecified), musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain (20%; grade 3 or 4, 2.9%) and muscular weakness (13%; grade 3 or 4, 4.5%) were reported in patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials. The term musculoskeletal pain included back pain, extremity pain, arthralgia, neck pain, non-cardiac chest pain (unspecified), myalgia, bone pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, musculoskeletal stiffness, and spinal pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    acneiform rash, atopic dermatitis, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, rash
    General Information
    Rash was reported in 11% (grade 3 of 4, 0.8%) of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials. The term rash included dermatitis, acneiform rash, dermatitis bullous, atopic dermatitis (eczema), erythema multiforme, erythematous rash, maculopapular rash, pruritic rash, and pustular rash.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      atopic dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia was reported in 12% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Serious cases of seizures were reported in 2.4% of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    thromboembolism
    General Information
    Thromboembolism, specifically venous thromboembolic events, was reported in less than 10% of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thromboembolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy was reported in less than 10% of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hydrocephalus
    General Information
    Serious cases of hydrocephalus occurred in 5% of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hydrocephalus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    encephalopathy
    General Information
    Fatal cases of encephalopathy occurred in 0.3% of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      encephalopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cardiac arrest
    General Information
    Fatal cases of cardiac arrest were reported in 0.5% of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    intracranial bleeding
    General Information
    Fatal cases of intracranial bleeding/hemorrhage were reported in 0.3% of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Dordaviprone may cause infertility in both people who can become pregnant and in those who can cause pregnancy based on its mechanism of action (dopamine D2 receptor inhibition and alterations to mitochondrial function).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes, including increased ALT (28%; grade 3 or 4, 2.4%), increased AST (22%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%), and increases from baseline in alkaline phosphatase (11%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) were reported in patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Hypoglycemia, including decreases from baseline in glucose, was reported in 11% of patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia
    General Information
    Hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, and hypokalemia have been reported in patients treated with dordaviprone. Decreases from baseline in calcium (20%; grade 3 or 4, 2.7%), sodium (14%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3%), and potassium (13%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) were reported in patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia
    General Information
    Anemia, neutropenia, and lymphopenia have been reported in patients treated with dordaviprone. Decreases from baseline in hemoglobin (25%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6%), neutrophils (24%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%), and lymphocytes (19%; grade 3 or 4, 7%) occurred in patients with glioma treated with dordaviprone across 4 open-label clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Dordaviprone is a protease activator of the mitochondrial caseinolytic protease P (CIpP) and an inhibitor of the dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2). It is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older with diffuse midline glioma harboring an H3 K27M mutation with progressive disease following prior therapy. Dordaviprone can cause severe hypersensitivity reactions and QTc interval prolongation. Dordaviprone was approved by the FDA in August 2025.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Dordaviprone is a blood-brain penetrant, small molecule of the imipridone family. It is a protease activator of the mitochondrial caseinolytic protease P (ClpP) and an inhibitor of the dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2). Diffuse midline gliomas harboring an H3 K27M mutation are associated with the loss of H3 K27 trimethylation, an increase in H3 K27M acetylation, and widespread oncogenic changes in gene expression, which propel malignant progression. Broadly, dordaviprone binds to ClpP, destabilizing the homeostatic levels of proteins in the mitochondria, increasing reactive oxygen species (ROS), and catalyzing the integrated stress response (ISR), an adaptational signaling pathway that allows cells to shut-down protein synthesis. Downstream of DRD2 and ClpP engagement, dordaviprone also inactivates the Akt/ERK signaling pathway. In vitro, dordaviprone induced apoptosis, activated the ISR, and altered mitochondrial metabolism leading to restored histone H3 K27 trimethylation in H3 K27M-mutant diffuse glioma models. It also exhibited antitumor activity in cell-based assays and in vivo models of H3 K27M-mutant diffuse glioma.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following a single dose of dordaviprone at the approved recommended dosage, the Cmax of dordaviprone is 2.8 mcg/mL (CV, 42%) and the AUC is 23 hour x mcg/mL (CV, 48%). Both dordaviprone AUC and Cmax increased in a dose proportional manner over the dose range of 125 to 625 mg; no accumulation is observed following once weekly dosing. The median Tmax (min, max) of dordaviprone is 1.4 hours (0.5 hours, 5.6 hours).
Effect of food: Following administration with a high-fat meal (800 to 1,000 calories, 50% fat), dordaviprone Cmax decreased by 40% with no change in AUC.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than or equal to upper limit of normal [ULN] and AST more than ULN or total bilirubin 1 to 1.5 times ULN and any AST) had no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of dordaviprone. Following a single oral dose of 125 mg (0.2 times the maximum approved recommended dose), dordaviprone AUC increased by 1.5-fold and Cmax by 1.2-fold in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh class B). The effect of severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin more than 3 times ULN with any AST) on dordaviprone pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Following a single oral dose of 375 mg (0.6 times the maximum approved recommended dose), dordaviprone AUC increased by 1.5-fold and Cmax by 1.1-fold in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min, estimated by Cockcroft-Gault equation).
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The exposure of dordaviprone in pediatric patients weighing 10 kg or more is predicted to be within the range of exposures predicted in adults at the recommended dosage.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (3 to 90 years) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of dordaviprone.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of dordaviprone.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (74% White, 9% Black or African American, or 5% Asian) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of dordaviprone.
  Text
  Dordaviprone is administered orally. Dordaviprone plasma protein binding is 95% to 97%, independent of concentrations in vitro, with a median blood-to-plasma ratio of 0.67 in vitro. It has a mean apparent volume of distribution is 450 L (CV, 40%). Dordaviprone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 with minor contributions from CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A5. Following a single dose of radiolabeled dordaviprone, 20% of the dose was recovered in the feces and 70% in the urine with no notable unchanged dordaviprone in the feces or urine. The mean terminal half-life of dordaviprone is 11 hours (CV, 30%) with a mean apparent clearance of approximately 27 L/hour (CV, 48%).
Pharmacodynamics
At 1.2 times the maximum recommended dose, the estimated mean QTcF change was 11.8 msec (90% CI: 9.8, 13.7).
Affected Cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, MATE1, MATE2-K, OAT1, OAT3, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and OCT1
Dordaviprone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as itraconazole and erythromycin, increase dordaviprone overall exposure; strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin and efavirenz, decrease dordaviprone overall exposure. No clinically significant difference in dordaviprone pharmacokinetics is predicted when used concomitantly with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as cimetidine. In vitro, dordaviprone inhibits CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, MATE1, MATE2-K, OAT1, OAT3, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and OCT1; in vitro, it is an inducer of CYP2B6.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before or 3 hours after food intake.
Swallow capsules whole.
For patients unable to swallow capsules whole: Open each capsule, mix contents with approximately 15 to 30 mL of liquid (sports drink, apple juice, lemonade, or water) before administration, and give orally as a liquid. Once mixed, administer within 2 hours of preparation, or discard and mix a new dose. Dordaviprone may also be administered by nasogastric or gastrostomy feeding tube. Refer to Modeyso Instruction for Use prior to use in patients unable to swallow.
If a dose is missed within 2 days, take the missed dose as soon as possible. If a dose is missed by more than 2 days, take the next dose at the regular time on the next scheduled dosing day.
If a dose is vomited, do not take an additional dose and take the next dose at the regular time on the next scheduled dosing day.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    625 mg PO once weekly.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    625 mg PO once weekly.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Weight 52.5 kg or greater: 625 mg PO once weekly.
Weight 42.5 kg to less than 52.5 kg: 500 mg PO once weekly.
Weight 27.5 kg to less than 42.5 kg: 375 mg PO once weekly.
Weight 12.5 kg to less than 27.5 kg: 250 mg PO once weekly.
Weight 10 kg to less than 12.5 kg: 125 mg PO once weekly.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Weight 52.5 kg or greater: 625 mg PO once weekly.
Weight 42.5 kg to less than 52.5 kg: 500 mg PO once weekly.
Weight 27.5 kg to less than 42.5 kg: 375 mg PO once weekly.
Weight 12.5 kg to less than 27.5 kg: 250 mg PO once weekly.
Weight 10 kg to less than 12.5 kg: 125 mg PO once weekly.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
