=== Umeclidinium/Vilanterol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3835)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a combination of an inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), umeclidinium, and a long-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist (LABA), vilanterol, indicated for the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

Routes: inhalation; Common adult doses: 62.5 mcg/day of umeclidinium and 25 mcg/day of vilanterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 1 inhalation/day of Anoro Ellipta).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthma-related death, bronchospasm, wheezing, arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hypokalemia, myocardial infarction, palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (pvcs), qt prolongation, sinus tachycardia, st-t wave changes, arthralgia, asthenia, cough, dysphonia, infection, pharyngitis, sinusitis, vertigo, dysgeusia, gastroesophageal reflux, anxiety, back pain, dental pain, headache, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, tremor

In an Overdose: High doses or overdosage of vilanterol can lead to clinically significant QT prolongation, which can produce ventricular arrhythmias.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is contraindicated in individuals with a severe milk protein hypersensitivity since the product contains lactose, which contains milk proteins.

Brand Names
  - ANORO ELLIPTA

Dosage Forms
  - ANORO ELLIPTA 62.5mcg-25mcg/actuation Powder for Inhalation
  - Umeclidinium 62.5mcg/1actuation Inhalation powder, Vilanterol 25mcg/1actuation Inhalation powder with Blister Aerosolizer/Inhalation Unit

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation powder)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        62.5 mcg umeclidinium; 25 mcg vilanterol (1 actuation of 62.5 mcg umeclidinium; 25 mcg vilanterol) inhaled by mouth once daily. Max: 62.5 mcg/day umeclidinium; 25 mcg/day vilanterol (1 actuation/day).
    Heading
    For the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (e.g., chronic bronchitis or emphysema)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is contraindicated in individuals with a severe milk protein hypersensitivity since the product contains lactose, which contains milk proteins.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Umeclidinium; vilanterol is not FDA-approved for the treatment of asthma. All long-acting beta agonists (LABAs) are contraindicated for monotherapy treatment of asthma and, in patients with asthma, must be used with an asthma controller medication (i.e., inhaled corticosteroid).
Do not use umeclidinium; vilanterol as a reliever therapy for acute bronchospasm. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled short-acting beta agonist (SABA). Increasing use of inhaled SABAs is one marker of deteriorating COPD. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen. Umeclidinium; vilanterol should not be initiated in people with acutely deteriorating COPD, which may be a life-threatening condition. Umeclidinium; vilanterol has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD. The use of umeclidinium; vilanterol in this setting is inappropriate.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Do not use umeclidinium; vilanterol in combination with another long-acting beta agonist (LABA) due to the risk for overdose. Do not exceed the maximum recommended umeclidinium; vilanterol daily dosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs.
    Headline
    cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, hypertension
    General Information
    Vilanterol, like other beta2-agonists and sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency (coronary artery disease), cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Vilanterol can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, and cardiac arrhythmias, such as supraventricular tachycardia and extrasystoles. If such effects occur, umeclidinium; vilanterol may need to be discontinued.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, seizure disorder
    General Information
    Umeclidinium; vilanterol should be used cautiously in patients with hyperthyroidism (thyrotoxicosis), diabetes mellitus, history of seizure disorder, or other unusual responsiveness to other sympathomimetic amines. Beta-agonists may cause transient hyperglycemia. Doses of the related beta2-agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma
    General Information
    Umeclidinium; vilanterol should be used with caution in individuals with closed-angle glaucoma since it may increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance. Instruct individuals to contact a care provider immediately if they experience temporary ocular pain, mydriasis, cycloplegia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, or visual impairment.
    Headline
    bladder obstruction, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary retention
    General Information
    Umeclidinium, like all anticholinergics, should be used with caution in people with urinary retention. Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention (e.g., difficulty passing urine, painful urination), especially in people with prostatic hypertrophy or bladder obstruction. Instruct patients taking umeclidinium; vilanterol to consult a care provider immediately if any of these signs or symptoms develop.
    Headline
    labor, pregnancy
    General Information
    There are insufficient data on the use of umeclidinium; vilanterol inhaler or its individual components, umeclidinium and vilanterol,during pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. In animal reproduction studies, umeclidinium administered via inhalation or subcutaneously to pregnant rats and rabbits was not associated with adverse effects on embryofetal development at exposures approximately 50 and 200 times, respectively, the human exposure at the maximum recommended human daily inhaled dose (MRHDID). Vilanterol administered via inhalation to pregnant rats and rabbits produced no fetal structural abnormalities at exposures approximately 70 times the MRHDID. Umeclidinium; vilanterol inhaler should be used during late gestation and labor only if the potential benefit justifies the potential for risks related to beta-agonists interfering with uterine contractility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use caution when administering umeclidinium; vilanterol inhalation during breast-feeding. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition. It is unknown whether vilanterol is excreted in breast milk; however, other beta-agonists have been detected in human breast milk. Studies of umeclidinium in rats indicate possible transfer to rat milk. Inhaled umeclidinium results in low systemic maternal serum concentrations and any drug excreted in breast milk would likely not be absorbed by the infant.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use caution when administering umeclidinium; vilanterol inhalation during breast-feeding. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition. It is unknown whether vilanterol is excreted in breast milk; however, other beta-agonists have been detected in human breast milk. Studies of umeclidinium in rats indicate possible transfer to rat milk. Inhaled umeclidinium results in low systemic maternal serum concentrations and any drug excreted in breast milk would likely not be absorbed by the infant.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Aclidinium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists. (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects if coadministered with adagrasib. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Anticholinergics: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if umeclidinium; vilanterol and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of vilanterol. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when atazanavir is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4. Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when atazanavir is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4. Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-gp inhibitor.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Atomoxetine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Atropine: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Benztropine: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists. (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-gp inhibitor.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Additive effects and increased toxicity might be observed when using cocaine with beta-agonists, which are sympathomimetic agents. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive adrenergic stimulation and side effects, such as nervousness, insomnia, palpitations, or adverse cardiovascular effects.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering vilanterol with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated vilanterol plasma concentrations. Vilanterol is a primary substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-gp inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with umeclidinium; vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated umeclidinium; vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-gp inhibitor.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of umeclidinium and fosamprenavir may result in decreased umeclidinium plasma concentrations. Umeclidinium is a substrate of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Amprenavir, the active metabolite of fosamprenavir, is an inducer of P-gp. (Moderate) Concomitant use of vilanterol and fosamprenavir may result in altered vilanterol plasma concentrations. Vilanterol is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Amprenavir, the active metabolite of fosamprenavir, is an inducer of P-gp and a potent inhibitor and moderate inducer of CYP3A4.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of glecaprevir and umeclidinium as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of umeclidinium and increase the risk of adverse effects. Umeclidinium is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); glecaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of pibrentasvir and umeclidinium as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of umeclidinium and increase the risk of adverse effects. Umeclidinium is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); pibrentasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists. (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with umeclidinium; vilanterol, a CYP3A substrate, as umeclidinium; vilanterol toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with umeclidinium; vilanterol may result in increased serum concentrations of umeclidinium; vilanterol. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Use itraconazole with caution in combination with beta-agonists as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol. Vilanterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Letermovir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of vilanterol may occur if given with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Monitor patients receiving vilanterol with both letermovir and cyclosporine for cardiovascular adverse effects (i.e., increased pulse, increased blood pressure, fast or irregular heartbeat). Vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol. Vilanterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of beta-agonists. Closely monitor for increased blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as the beta-agonists.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects if coadministered with lonafarnib. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the exposure of umeclidinium; vilanterol. In vitro data suggest vilanterol is a primary substrate of CYP3A4; both vilanterol and umeclidinium are substrates for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce and/or inhibit P-gp. Although induction of vilanterol metabolism through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport and its effect on umeclidinium; vilanterol is not clear. Monitor the patient for decreased beta-agonist efficacy or increased or prolonged beta-agonist and/or anticholinergic effects and adverse events. (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the exposure of umeclidinium. Umeclidinium is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp); in vitro data suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce and/or inhibit P-gp. The net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport and its effect on umeclidinium is not clear. Monitor the patient for therapeutic efficacy and increased or prolonged anticholinergic effects.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the exposure of umeclidinium; vilanterol. In vitro data suggest vilanterol is a primary substrate of CYP3A4; both vilanterol and umeclidinium are substrates for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce and/or inhibit P-gp. Although induction of vilanterol metabolism through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport and its effect on umeclidinium; vilanterol is not clear. Monitor the patient for decreased beta-agonist efficacy or increased or prolonged beta-agonist and/or anticholinergic effects and adverse events. (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the exposure of umeclidinium. Umeclidinium is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp); in vitro data suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce and/or inhibit P-gp. The net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport and its effect on umeclidinium is not clear. Monitor the patient for therapeutic efficacy and increased or prolonged anticholinergic effects.
Methacholine: (Major) Discontinue use of umeclidinium 168 hours or more before a methacholine challenge test. Umeclidinium inhibits the airway response to methacholine. (Major) Discontinue use of vilanterol 48 hours before a methacholine challenge test. Beta-agonists inhibit the airway response to methacholine.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
metOLazone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Mirabegron: (Minor) Mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 such as umeclidinium may be increased when co-administered with mirabegron. Umeclidinium is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6. Therefore, appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Monitor for dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision or urinary retention.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and vilanterol are used concomitantly (including combination products fluticasone; vilanterol and umeclidinium; vilanterol), and monitor for decreased efficacy of vilanterol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of vilanterol.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) The coadministration of vilanterol with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as nefazodone can result in elevated vilanterol plasma concentrations and increased risk for adverse reactions.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) The coadministration of vilanterol with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as nelfinavir can result in elevated vilanterol plasma concentrations and increased risk for adverse reactions.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Netupitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant medications that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4, such as vilanterol. The plasma concentrations of vilanterol can increase when co-administered with netupitant, possibly increasing the risk of cardiovascular adverse effects. The inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 can last for multiple days.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Osimertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in umeclidinium-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osimertinib is necessary. Umeclidinium is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and osimertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased umeclidinium exposure by 1.4-fold.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to umeclidinium if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while umeclidinium is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Procarbazine: (Major) Procarbazine has MAOI activity and the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. Although no data are available, procarbazine may interact similarly. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-agonists are administered within two weeks of stopping the MAOI.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetic agents was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and respiratory adrenergic agents (e.g., the beta-agonists). Although sympathomimetic agents are contraindicated for use with traditional non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. However, the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. At least one case of hypertension occurred in a patient with previous episodes of high blood pressure who was receiving albuterol and selegiline, a selective MAOI related to rasagiline, concurrently. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-2 agonists are administered during or within 2 weeks of use of an MAOI.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects if coadministered with relacorilant. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects if coadministered with ribociclib. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects if coadministered with ribociclib. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if umeclidinium and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for umeclidinium-related adverse effects. Umeclidinium is a CYP2D6 substrate and rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant lasts for at least 7 days, and may last longer after single dose administration. The Cmax and AUC of another CYP2D6 substrate, dextromethorphan, were increased by 120% and 160%, respectively, on day 1 with rolapitant, and by 180% and 230%, respectively, on day 8 after rolapitant administration.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Plasma concentrations of umeclidinium, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, may be increased when administered concurrently with voxilaprevir, a P-gp inhibitor. Monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are administered concurrently. (Moderate) Plasma concentrations of vilanterol, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, may be increased when administered concurrently with voxilaprevir, a P-gp inhibitor. Monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are administered concurrently.
SORAfenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in umeclidinium-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sorafenib is necessary. Umeclidinium is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and sorafenib is a P-gp inhibitor in vitro. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased umeclidinium exposure by 1.4-fold.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Sympathomimetics: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Temsirolimus: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in umeclidinium-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Umeclidinium is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of umeclidinium.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, ((e.g., theophylline and aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated. (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, (e.g., theophylline, aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Umeclidinium is a P-gp substrate. When verapamil, a moderate P-gp transporter inhibitor, was given to healthy adult subjects at a dose of 240 mg once daily in combination with umeclidinium, no effect on umeclidinium Cmax was observed. However, an approximately 1.4-fold increase in umeclidinium AUC was observed.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when tucatinib is administered with vilanterol as there is a potential for elevated vilanterol concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4 and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Umeclidinium is a P-gp substrate. When verapamil, a moderate P-gp transporter inhibitor, was given to healthy adult subjects at a dose of 240 mg once daily in combination with umeclidinium, no effect on umeclidinium Cmax was observed. However, an approximately 1.4-fold increase in umeclidinium AUC was observed.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    asthma-related death, bronchospasm, wheezing
    General Information
    An increase in the need for rescue inhaler use and/or worsening wheezing or bronchospasm may occur during therapy with umeclidinium; vilanterol; these are symptoms of a deterioration of the underlying respiratory condition and may be potentially life-threatening. Advise patients not to exceed recommended doses of this medicine, but instead, seek immediate medical attention if such symptoms occur. Vilanterol is a long-acting beta-agonist (LABA). When LABAs are used in fixed-dose combination with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), data from large clinical trials do not show a significant increase in the risk of serious asthma-related events (hospitalizations, intubations, death) compared with ICS alone. The use of a LABA as asthma monotherapy, without an ICS, is associated with an increased risk of asthma-related death. Available data from controlled clinical trials also suggest that use of LABA as monotherapy increases the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Umeclidinium; vilanterol is not indicated for the treatment of asthma or for the treatment of pediatric and adolescent patients. These findings pertain only to patients who have asthma; data are not available to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased during LABA therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthma-related death
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hypokalemia, myocardial infarction, palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia, ST-T wave changes
    General Information
    Vilanterol can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients, as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of umeclidinium; vilanterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. Chest pain (unspecified) was reported in 1% of patients receiving umeclidinium; vilanterol. Atrial fibrillation, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), supraventricular extrasystoles, and myocardial infarction were reported in less than 1% of patients treated with umeclidinium; vilanterol. Palpitations and sinus tachycardia have been reported postmarketing. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes such as ST-T wave changes (e.g., flattening of the T wave, ST segment depression, and QT prolongation); however, the clinical significance of this at usual doses is unknown. High doses or overdosage of vilanterol can lead to clinically significant QT prolongation, which can produce ventricular arrhythmias. Beta-agonist-induced hypokalemia may increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmia exacerbation in predisposed patients. Effects on serum glucose or potassium were not evident in the clinical trials evaluating umeclidinium; vilanterol in subjects with COPD. The effect of vilanterol-containing respiratory products for COPD on major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) has been studied. In a 52-week trial of subjects with COPD, the exposure-adjusted rates for any on-treatment MACE, including non-fatal central nervous system hemorrhages and cerebrovascular conditions, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal acute myocardial infarction, and adjudicated on-treatment death due to cardiovascular events, was 2.2 per 100 patient-years for fluticasone; umeclidinium; vilanterol (n = 4,151), 1.9 per 100 patient-years for fluticasone; vilanterol (n = 4,134), and 2.2 per 100 patient-years for umeclidinium; vilanterol (n = 2,070). Adjudicated on-treatment deaths due to cardiovascular events occurred in 20 of 4,151 patients (0.54 per 100 patient-years) receiving fluticasone; umeclidinium; vilanterol, 27 of 4,134 patients (0.78 per 100 patient-years) receiving fluticasone; vilanterol, and 16 of 2,070 patients (0.94 per 100 patient-years) receiving umeclidinium; vilanterol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ST-T wave changes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      premature ventricular contractions (PVCs)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, asthenia, cough, dysphonia, infection, pharyngitis, sinusitis, vertigo
    General Information
    In 6-month controlled trials of patients with COPD, pharyngitis (2%), sinusitis (1%), and lower respiratory tract infection (1%) were reported in patients receiving umeclidinium; vilanterol and at a higher rate than in patients receiving placebo. Cough, urinary tract infection, arthralgia, vertigo, viral respiratory tract infection, and pleuritic pain were reported in trials of patients receiving umeclidinium; vilanterol for 12 months. Other adverse reactions that occurred with an incidence less than 1% but more common than with placebo included: asthenia and productive cough. Dysphonia was reported during postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysphonia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    In 6 month trials of 4733 patients with COPD, constipation (1% vs. < 1% placebo) and diarrhea (2% vs. 1% placebo) were reported in patients receiving umeclidinium; vilanterol. Nausea was reported in trials of patients receiving umeclidinium; vilanterol for 12 months. Other adverse reactions that occurred with an incidence < 1% but more common than with placebo included: xerostomia, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and vomiting. Dysgeusia has been reported during post-marketing experience with umeclidinium; vilanterol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anxiety, back pain, dental pain, headache, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, tremor
    General Information
    In the 6-month clinical trials of patients with COPD, pain in extremity (2%), muscle cramps (1%), and neck pain (1%) were reported in patients receiving umeclidinium; vilanterol and at higher incidences than with placebo. Headache, back pain, and toothache (dental pain) were reported in trials of patients receiving umeclidinium; vilanterol for 12 months. Other adverse reactions occurring in less than 1% of patients included musculoskeletal pain and chest discomfort. Tremor and anxiety have been reported during postmarketing experience with umeclidinium; vilanterol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dental pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria
    General Information
    Pruritus and rash (unspecified) occurred in patients receiving umeclidinium; vilanterol with an incidence less than 1% but more common than with placebo. Urticaria and anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients using inhalation powders with similar components (e.g., lactose) to umeclidinium; vilanterol inhalation powder. Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, have been reported during post-marketing experience with umeclidinium; vilanterol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    blurred vision, conjunctivitis, ocular hypertension, ocular pain
    General Information
    In a 6-month controlled trials for COPD, conjunctivitis occurred with an incidence less than 1% in patients treated with umeclidinium; vilanterol but more commonly than with placebo. As with other anticholinergic medications, umeclidinium; vilanterol has the potential to cause increased intraocular pressure, thereby worsening ocular hypertension (glaucoma). Anticholinergic-related ocular adverse reactions, including eye pain (ocular pain), glaucoma, and blurred vision have been reported during postmarketing trials with umeclidinium. Patients should report eye pain or discomfort, blurred vision, visual halos or colored images in association with conjunctivitis; refer these patients immediately for evaluation if these symptoms occur during therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia
    General Information
    As with other beta-2 agonists, a number of metabolic disturbances can develop when using vilanterol including hyperglycemia. Effects on serum glucose were not evident in the clinical trials evaluating umeclidinium; vilanterol in subjects with COPD. Diabetes mellitus was reported in trials of patients receiving umeclidinium; vilanterol for 12 months.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diabetes mellitus
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dysuria, urinary retention
    General Information
    Anticholinergic-related genitourinary adverse reactions reported during postmarketing trials with umeclidinium; vilanterol inhaler have included dysuria and urinary retention; these effects are due to the umeclidinium component. If difficulty passing urine or other urinary symptoms occur during use, the patient should seek medical consultation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Umeclidinium; vilanterol is a combination of an inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), umeclidinium, and a long-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist (LABA), vilanterol, indicated for the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD guidelines recommend initial therapy with a LABA plus LAMA combination for individuals in Group B and for many individuals in Group E, particularly in the absence of features suggesting likely benefit from ICS-containing therapy. Studies comparing dual bronchodilator therapy with long-acting bronchodilator monotherapy have shown that LABA plus LAMA combinations improve symptoms, lung function, and reduce COPD exacerbations more effectively than monotherapy in many patients. The safety and efficacy of umeclidinium; vilanterol have not been established in individuals with asthma, and the combination is not indicated for acute bronchospasm or asthma. Umeclidinium; vilanterol was FDA-approved in 2013.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Umeclidinium is a respiratory antimuscarinic or long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), which is often referred to as an anticholinergic; vilanterol is a long-acting, selective beta-agonist (LABA).
Umeclidinium: Umeclidinium has similar affinity to the subtypes of muscarinic receptors M1 thru M5. Bronchodilation occurs through inhibition of the M3 receptor in the smooth muscle of the airways. The competitive and reversible nature of antagonism was exhibited with human and animal origin receptors and isolated organ preparations. Prevention of acetylcholine-induced bronchoconstriction was shown to be dose-dependent in preclinical in vitro and in vivo studies. The effect lasted longer than 24 hours. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. After inhalation, bronchodilation is predominantly a site-specific effect.
Vilanterol: Vilanterol is a selective agonist at beta-2 receptors. In vitro tests have shown the functional selectivity of vilanterol was similar to salmeterol. Beta-2 receptors are present in large numbers in the lungs and are located on bronchiolar smooth muscle. Stimulation of beta-2 receptors in the lung causes relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, which produces bronchodilation and a resultant increase in bronchial airflow. These effects are believed to be mediated, in part, by increased activity of adenyl cyclase, an intracellular enzyme responsible for the formation of cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Inhalation Route
    Description
    Umeclidinium: Plasma levels of umeclidinium after oral inhalation are not predictive of therapeutic effect. Following inhaled administration of umeclidinium in healthy subjects, Cmax occurred at 5 to 15 minutes. Umeclidinium is mostly absorbed from the lung after inhaled doses with minimum contribution from oral absorption. Following repeat dosing of inhaled umeclidinium; vilanterol, steady state was achieved within 14 days with up to 1.8-fold accumulation.
Vilanterol: Plasma levels of vilanterol after oral inhalation are not predictive of therapeutic effect. Following inhaled administration of vilanterol in healthy subjects, Cmax occurred at 5 to 15 minutes. Vilanterol is mostly absorbed from the lung after inhaled doses with negligible contribution from oral absorption. Following repeat dosing of inhaled umeclidinium; vilanterol, steady state was achieved within 14 days with up to 1.7-fold accumulation.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Umeclidinium: Cmax and AUC were not increased in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 7—9); altered protein binding was not evident in these subjects.
Vilanterol: Cmax and AUC were not increased in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 7—9); altered protein binding was not evident in these subjects.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Umeclidinium: AUC was not increased in subjects with severe renal impairment; altered protein binding was not evident in these patients.
Vilanterol: AUC was 56% higher in subjects with severe renal impairment (CrCl < 30 ml/min) compared to healthy subjects. Altered protein binding was not evident in subjects with severe renal impairment.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Umeclidinium: There was no effect of age (40—93 years) on the pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium.
Vilanterol: There was no effect of age (40—93 years) on the pharmacokinetics of vilanterol.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Umeclidinium: There was no effect of gender on the pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium.
Vilanterol: There was no effect of gender on the pharmacokinetics of vilanterol.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Umeclidinium: There was no effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium.
Vilanterol: There was no effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of vilanterol.
  Text
  Umeclidinium; vilanterol is administered by oral inhalation. Linear pharmacokinetics are observed for umeclidinium (62.5 to 500 mcg) and vilanterol (25 to 100 mcg).
Umeclidinium: Following IV administration to healthy subjects, the mean volume of distribution was 86 liters. In vitro plasma protein binding in human plasma was on average 89%. In vitro data showed that umeclidinium is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 2D6 and is a P-gp substrate. Umeclidinium is metabolized via oxidative metabolism (hydroxylation, O-dealkylation) followed by conjugation (e.g., glucuronidation); metabolites have either low or no pharmacological activity. Systemic exposure to the metabolites is low. Following IV dosing with radio-labeled umeclidinium, mass balance showed 58% of the radio-label in the feces and 22% in the urine. Bile elimination was also evident. Following oral dosing to healthy male subjects, radio-label recovered in feces was 92% of the total dose and that in urine was less than 1% of the total dose, suggesting negligible oral absorption. The effective half-life after once-daily dosing is 11 hours.
Vilanterol: Following intravenous administration, the mean volume of distribution at steady state was 165 L. Protein binding of vilanterol is approximately 93.9%. Metabolism mainly occurs via hepatic CYP3A4 to a range of metabolites with significantly reduced beta-1- and beta-2 agonist activity. Vilanterol is also a P-gp substrate. Following oral administration, vilanterol was eliminated mainly by metabolism followed by excretion of metabolites in urine and feces (approximately 70% and 30% of the recovered radioactive dose, respectively). The effective half-life for accumulation of vilanterol, as determined from inhalation administration of multiple doses of vilanterol 25 mcg is 21.3 hours in subjects with COPD.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2D6, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
Umeclidinium: In vitro data showed that umeclidinium is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 and is a substrate for the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) transporter. However, no clinically meaningful difference in systemic exposure (AUC) to umeclidinium (500 mcg) (8 times the approved dose) was observed following repeat daily inhaled dosing in CYP2D6 normal (ultrarapid, extensive, and intermediate metabolizers) and poor metabolizer subjects. In a clinical study with a strong P-gp inhibitor, an approximately 1.4-fold increase in umeclidinium AUC was observed but no increase in Cmax occurred.
Vilanterol: In vitro data showed that vilanterol is metabolized principally by CYP3A4 and is a substrate for the P-gp transporter; however, a strong P-gp inhibitor had no significant effect on vilanterol Cmax or AUC. Systemic exposure of vilanterol after oral inhalational use may increase when coadministered with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Inhalation Administration
      Description
      Instruct the patient to open and prepare mouthpiece of the umeclidinium; vilanterol inhaler and slide the cover down to activate the first dose (see package instructions). The counter counts down by 1 each time the patient opens the cover.
Holding the inhaler mouthpiece level to, but away from, the mouth, the patient should exhale. Then, put the mouthpiece to the lips and have patient breathe in the dose deeply and slowly. Remove the inhaler from the mouth, hold breath for about 3 to 4 seconds, and then exhale slowly. Instruct patient to close the inhaler.
If the cover is opened and closed without inhaling the medicine, the dose will be lost. The lost dose will be held in the inhaler, but it will no longer be available to be inhaled. It is not possible to accidentally take a double dose or an extra dose in one inhalation.
Routine cleaning of the inhaler is not required; the patient can clean the mouthpiece if needed, using a dry tissue, before the cover is closed.
Discard inhaler after 30 sprays or when the counter reads "0", or when the expiration date has passed.
    Name
    Inhalation Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    62.5 mcg/day of umeclidinium and 25 mcg/day of vilanterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 1 inhalation/day of Anoro Ellipta).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    62.5 mcg/day of umeclidinium and 25 mcg/day of vilanterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 1 inhalation/day of Anoro Ellipta).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
