=== Articaine/EPINEPHrine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2532)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Articaine is a short-acting local anesthetic of the amide type.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: Articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg, equivalent to 0.175 mL/kg, by intraoral submucosal infiltration or nerve block.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, back pain, blurred vision, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, migraine, muscle paralysis, paresthesias, respiratory arrest, respiratory depression, restlessness, seizures, tremor, asthenia, edema, malaise, arrhythmia exacerbation, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, hypertension, hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, syncope, anaphylactoid reactions, pruritus

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Articaine; epinephrine is contraindicated in individuals with hypersensitivity to sulfites.

ARTICAINE/EPINEPHRINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Septocaine, Zorcaine with Epinephrine

Indication Specific Dosing

For dental anesthesia, including local infiltration, nerve block, and oral surgery

For dental anesthesia by local infiltration
Infiltration dosage
Adults


0.5 to 2.5 mL (articaine 20 to 100 mg) by intraoral submucosal infiltration. Do not exceed articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg.


Children and Adolescents 4 to 17 years


0.5 to 2.5 mL (articaine 20 to 100 mg) by intraoral submucosal infiltration. Do not exceed articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg.


For dental anesthesia by nerve block
Perineural dosage
Adults


0.5 to 3.4 mL (articaine 20 to 136 mg) by nerve block. Do not exceed articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg.


Children and Adolescents 4 to 17 years


0.5 to 3.4 mL (articaine 20 to 136 mg) by nerve block. Do not exceed articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg.


For dental anesthesia in oral surgery
Infiltration or Perineural dosage
Adults


1 to 5.1 mL (articaine 40 to 204 mg) by oral submucosal infiltration or nerve block. Do not exceed articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg.


Children and Adolescents 4 to 17 years


1 to 5.1 mL (articaine 40 to 204 mg) by oral submucosal infiltration or nerve block. Do not exceed articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Articaine; epinephrine is contraindicated in individuals with hypersensitivity to sulfites. Articaine; epinephrine contains sodium metabisulfite.

asthma


Articaine; epinephrine contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite, which may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible individuals. Sulfite sensitivity is more common in individuals with asthma than those without asthma.


cardiovascular disease


Individuals with cardiovascular disease may be less able to compensate for functional changes associated with prolonged AV conduction caused by local anesthetics. Use articaine; epinephrine with caution in individuals with heart block or impaired cardiovascular function. Lower articaine; epinephrine dosages may be required in acutely ill individuals, commensurate with their age and physical condition. Additionally, individuals with peripheral vascular disease or hypertension may exhibit exaggerated vasoconstrictor response to local anesthetic injections containing a vasoconstrictor, such as articaine; epinephrine.


G6PD deficiency, methemoglobinemia, pulmonary disease


Methemoglobinemia has been reported with local anesthetic use. Although all individuals are at risk for methemoglobinemia, individuals with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD deficiency), preexisting congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac compromise, pulmonary disease, those younger than 6 months, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor such individuals closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if a local anesthetic must be used. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed hours after exposure.


hepatic disease


Use articaine; epinephrine with caution in individuals with severe hepatic disease. Articaine; epinephrine has not been studied in individuals with liver dysfunction.


adolescents, children, infants, neonates


Lower articaine; epinephrine dosages may be required in neonates, infants, children, and adolescents, commensurate with their age and physical condition. Additionally, methemoglobinemia has been reported with local anesthetic use, and neonates and infants younger than 6 months are more susceptible to developing methemoglobinemia.


geriatric


Lower articaine; epinephrine dosages may be required in geriatric adults or debilitated individuals, commensurate with their age and physical condition.


pregnancy


Available data from postmarketing case reports over decades of clinical use with articaine; epinephrine during pregnancy have not identified any drug-associated risks of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Articaine; epinephrine (1:100,000) has been shown to increase fetal deaths and skeletal variations in rabbits when given in doses approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). A study by the American Dental Association suggests that, when needed, the use of dental local or topical anesthetics at 13 to 21 weeks of pregnancy or later is likely safe and does not raise incidences of adverse pregnancy outcomes or other adverse events. Most dental guidelines suggest that the second trimester is the best time for dental procedures if necessary. Lidocaine is a preferred agent for use; take care not to inject epinephrine systemically.


breast-feeding


Use articaine; epinephrine with caution in breast-feeding patients. There are no data on the presence of articaine; epinephrine in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. A lactating individual may choose to pump and discard breast milk for approximately 4 hours after injection to minimize infant ingestion. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the lactating individual's clinical need for articaine; epinephrine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the drug or from the underlying maternal condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data from postmarketing case reports over decades of clinical use with articaine; epinephrine during pregnancy have not identified any drug-associated risks of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Articaine; epinephrine (1:100,000) has been shown to increase fetal deaths and skeletal variations in rabbits when given in doses approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). A study by the American Dental Association suggests that, when needed, the use of dental local or topical anesthetics at 13 to 21 weeks of pregnancy or later is likely safe and does not raise incidences of adverse pregnancy outcomes or other adverse events. Most dental guidelines suggest that the second trimester is the best time for dental procedures if necessary. Lidocaine is a preferred agent for use; take care not to inject epinephrine systemically.


Interactions

Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and epinephrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and epinephrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects. (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including aliskiren, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including aliskiren, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ambrisentan: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as aminosalicylic acid, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Amobarbital: (Major) Amobarbital increases cardiac irritability via myocardial sensitization to catecholamines and can produce ventricular arrhythmias and/or hypertension when used concomitantly with epinephrine.
Amoxapine: (Major) Concomitant use of amoxapine with sympathomimetics should be avoided whenever possible; use with caution when concurrent use cannot be avoided. One drug information reference suggests that cyclic antidepressants potentiate the pharmacologic effects of direct-acting sympathomimetics, such as epinephrine, however, the data are not consistent.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Amphetamines: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when arformoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant epinephrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Benzalkonium Chloride; Benzocaine: (Moderate) Use articaine and benzocaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benzocaine: (Moderate) Use articaine and benzocaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Benzocaine; Butamben; Tetracaine: (Moderate) Use articaine and benzocaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects. (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects. (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and serum potassium during concomitant epinephrine and loop diuretic use. Loop diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic and hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Major) Avoid use of other local anesthetics for 96 hours after liposomal bupivacaine administration. Use articaine and other formulations of bupivacaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine: (Major) Avoid use of other local anesthetics for 96 hours after liposomal bupivacaine administration. Use articaine and other formulations of bupivacaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of other local anesthetics for 96 hours after liposomal bupivacaine administration. Use articaine and other formulations of bupivacaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Avoid use of other local anesthetics for 96 hours after liposomal bupivacaine administration. Use articaine and other formulations of bupivacaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Butyrophenone: (Major) Use of epinephrine to treat droperidol or haloperidol -induced hypotension can result in a paradoxical lowering of blood pressure due to droperidol's alpha-blocking effects. Avoid using epinephrine concurrently with droperidol and haloperidol.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Captopril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Cardiac glycosides: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients receiving cardiac glycosides and vasopressors concurrently due to the increased risk of arrhythmia.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Use articaine and chloroprocaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Chloroquine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as chloroquine, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Class IA Antiarrhythmics: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Class IB Antiarrhythmics: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant clonidine and epinephrine use. Clonidine may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine may induce significant alpha-adrenergic blockade during clozapine overdose, leading to profound hypotension. Epinephrine should generally not be used to treat clozapine-induced hypotension due to the unopposed beta-activity, which potentially could worsen the hypotension.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
cycloPHOSphamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as cyclophosphamide, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Coadministration of dapsone with articaine may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Advise patients to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention with any signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Monitor patients who are concomitantly receiving epinephrine and desflurane for the development of arrhythmias. Halogenated anesthetics, such as desflurane, sensitize the myocardium and may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. If occur, such arrhythmias may respond to beta-blocker administration.
Desipramine: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Desmopressin: (Minor) The antidiuretic response to desmopressin may be reduced in patients receiving high doses of epinephrine concomitantly. Caution should be used when coadministering these agents.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and epinephrine together with caution. Metabolic acidosis is associated with the use of dichlorphenamide and has been reported with the long-term use epinephrine. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects. Coadministration with other vasopressors may have the potential for serious cardiac adverse effects such as hypertensive crisis and cardiac arrhythmias.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients receiving cardiac glycosides and vasopressors concurrently due to the increased risk of arrhythmia.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Dinoprostone, Prostaglandin E2: (Major) Oxytocics have inherent vasopressor properties; hypertensive episodes have been reported in laboring women during induction with oxytoxin. Because epinephrine is a vasopressor, concomitant use may result in severe, prolonged hypertension. In addition, epinephrine, secondary to beta2-receptor agonism, can interfere with the oxytocic action of drugs such as dinoprostone or oxytocin.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Dobutamine may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of dopamine and other vasopressors, such as epinephrine, due to the risk for severe hypertension.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Doxapram may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Doxepin: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
droPERidol: (Major) Use of epinephrine to treat droperidol or haloperidol -induced hypotension can result in a paradoxical lowering of blood pressure due to droperidol's alpha-blocking effects. Avoid using epinephrine concurrently with droperidol and haloperidol.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including eplerenone, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and serum potassium during concomitant epinephrine and loop diuretic use. Loop diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic and hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Etomidate: (Major) General anesthetics are known to increase cardiac irritability via myocardial sensitization to catecholamines. These anesthetics can produce ventricular arrhythmias and/or hypertension when used concomitantly with epinephrine.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for epidural analgesia or additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Flutamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as flutamide, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and salmeterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects. (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects. (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects. (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects. (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as fosphenytoin, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and serum potassium during concomitant epinephrine and loop diuretic use. Loop diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic and hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Minor) In vitro studies have demonstrated the positive inotropic effects of ginger, Zingiber officinale. It is theoretically possible that ginger could affect the action of inotropic agents, however, no clinical data are available.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including guanfacine, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Haloperidol: (Major) Use of epinephrine to treat droperidol or haloperidol -induced hypotension can result in a paradoxical lowering of blood pressure due to droperidol's alpha-blocking effects. Avoid using epinephrine concurrently with droperidol and haloperidol.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Hydroxyurea: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as hydroxyurea, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Ibutilide: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as ifosfamide, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imipramine: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Iodixanol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Iohexol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Iomeprol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) The intravascular injection of a contrast medium should never be made after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects. Serious neurologic sequelae, including permanent paralysis, have been reported after cerebral arteriography, selective spinal arteriography, and arteriography of vessels supplying the spinal cord.
Iopamidol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Iopromide: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Ioversol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and epinephrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. (Major) Patients receiving local anesthetics may have an increased risk of hypotension. Combined hypotensive effects are possible with use of MAOIs and spinal anesthetics. When local anesthetics containing sympathomimetic vasoconstrictors (e.g., epinephrine) are coadministered with MAOIs, severe and prolonged hypertension may occur. MAOIs can increase the sensitivity to epinephrine by inhibiting epinephrine reuptake or metabolism. If concurrent therapy is necessary, carefully monitor the patient. Phenelzine and tranylcypromine are contraindicated for use for at least 10 days prior to elective surgery.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Monitor patients who are concomitantly receiving epinephrine and isoflurane for the development of arrhythmias. Halogenated anesthetics, such as isoflurane, sensitize the myocardium and may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. If occur, such arrhythmias may respond to beta-blocker administration. A study investigating the epinephrine induced arrhythmogenic effect of isoflurane in adult patients undergoing transsphenoidal hypophysectomy demonstrated that the threshold dose of epinephrine (i.e., the dose at which the first sign of arrhythmia was observed) producing multiple ventricular arrhythmias was 5 mcg/kg.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isoproterenol: (Major) Do not administer isoproterenol and epinephrine simultaneously due to additive cardiac stimulation, which may induce serious arrhythmias. These drugs may be administered alternately provided a proper interval has elapsed between doses.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when ketamine and epinephrine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Epinephrine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and epinephrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levomilnacipran: (Major) Due to the effects of levomilnacipran on noradrenergic pathways, paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmias may occur during concurrent use of epinephrine.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias. (Moderate) Use articaine and lidocaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias. (Moderate) Use articaine and lidocaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias. (Moderate) Use articaine and lidocaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Use articaine and prilocaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Major) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of epinephrine. Initial doses of epinephrine, if given by intravenous infusion, should be reduced and subsequent dosing titrated to desired response. Closely monitor blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as epinephrine.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and serum potassium during concomitant epinephrine and loop diuretic use. Loop diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic and hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Losartan: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Mafenide: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as sulfonamides, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Meperidine: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Use articaine and mepivacaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Metaproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should also be used when metaproterenol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Methadone: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Methohexital: (Major) General anesthetics are known to increase cardiac irritability via myocardial sensitization to catecholamines. These anesthetics can produce ventricular arrhythmias and/or hypertension when used concomitantly with epinephrine. (Major) The use of articaine; epinephrine during or following treatment with general anesthetics has been associated with the development of cardiac arrhythmias, and should be avoided, if possible.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including methyldopa, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with metoclopramide may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other agents associated with methemoglobinemia. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Concomitant use of milnacipran with drugs that increase blood pressure and heart rate has not been systematically evaluated and such combinations should be used with caution. Due to the effects of milnacipran on noradrenergic pathways, paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmias may occur during concurrent use of epinephrine. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure, and the patients clinical response to therapy if co-use is necessary. Milnacipran is associated with a mean increase in heart rate of 7 to 8 beats per minute, and higher increases in heart rate (13 beats per minute or more) occur more commonly in patients treated with milnacipran than in those receiving placebo. The mean increase from baseline was 5 to 6 mmHg in systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and cases of hypertension with milnacipran have been reported, some requiring immediate treatment.
Minocycline: (Moderate) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants such as local anesthetics. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. (Major) Patients receiving local anesthetics may have an increased risk of hypotension. Combined hypotensive effects are possible with use of MAOIs and spinal anesthetics. When local anesthetics containing sympathomimetic vasoconstrictors (e.g., epinephrine) are coadministered with MAOIs, severe and prolonged hypertension may occur. MAOIs can increase the sensitivity to epinephrine by inhibiting epinephrine reuptake or metabolism. If concurrent therapy is necessary, carefully monitor the patient. Phenelzine and tranylcypromine are contraindicated for use for at least 10 days prior to elective surgery.
Morphine: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Nicotine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and nicotine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitrofurantoin: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrofurantoin, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce significant alpha-adrenergic blockade in overdose, leading to profound hypotension. Do not use epinephrine, dopamine, or other sympathomimetics with beta-agonist activity since the beta-stimulation may worsen hypotension in the setting of olanzapine overdose.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce significant alpha-adrenergic blockade in overdose, leading to profound hypotension. Do not use epinephrine, dopamine, or other sympathomimetics with beta-agonist activity since the beta-stimulation may worsen hypotension in the setting of olanzapine overdose.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce significant alpha-adrenergic blockade in overdose, leading to profound hypotension. Do not use epinephrine, dopamine, or other sympathomimetics with beta-agonist activity since the beta-stimulation may worsen hypotension in the setting of olanzapine overdose.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Opicapone: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic may allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Oxytocin: (Moderate) Oxytocin may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine. Severe hypertension has been reported when oxytocin was given 3 to 4 hours after prophylactic administration of a vasoconstrictor in conjunction with caudal block anesthesia.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with other local anesthetics, such as articaine, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other local anesthetic. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with other local anesthetics, such as articaine, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other local anesthetic. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. (Major) Patients receiving local anesthetics may have an increased risk of hypotension. Combined hypotensive effects are possible with use of MAOIs and spinal anesthetics. When local anesthetics containing sympathomimetic vasoconstrictors (e.g., epinephrine) are coadministered with MAOIs, severe and prolonged hypertension may occur. MAOIs can increase the sensitivity to epinephrine by inhibiting epinephrine reuptake or metabolism. If concurrent therapy is necessary, carefully monitor the patient. Phenelzine and tranylcypromine are contraindicated for use for at least 10 days prior to elective surgery.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as phenobarbital, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as phenobarbital, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Phentermine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as phenytoin, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Use articaine and prilocaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use articaine and prilocaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of primaquine and local anesthetics due to the risk for methemoglobinemia. Both primaquine and local anesthetics are associated with this adverse effect and concomitant use may increase risk.
Primidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as primidone, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents. (Major) Patients taking procarbazine should not be given local anesthetics containing sympathomimetic vasoconstrictors; coadministration may invoke a severe hypertensive reaction. Procarbazine should be discontinued for at least 10 days prior to elective surgery.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Propofol: (Major) General anesthetics are known to increase cardiac irritability via myocardial sensitization to catecholamines. These anesthetics can produce ventricular arrhythmias and/or hypertension when used concomitantly with epinephrine.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Protriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine.
Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as quinine, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid other non-prescription products containing sympathomimetics since additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate or blood pressure may be additive. Patients should avoid use of non-prescription decongestants, such as phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine, while using racepinephrine inhalations. Patients should avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant or weight-loss effect, such as ephedrine and ephedra, Ma huang, and phenylpropanolamine.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Rasburicase: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as rasburicase, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
risperiDONE: (Major) The alpha-adrenergic effects of epinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of risperidone. This blockade can cause an apparently paradoxical condition called 'epinephrine reversal'. The vasoconstrictive properties of dopamine infusion can be decreased due to the alpha-adrenergic blocking capability of risperidone. The use of other agents for vascular support is recommended when needed.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Use articaine and ropivacaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as epinephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and epinephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and salmeterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure for hypertension during concomitant use of selegiline and sympathomimetics such as epinephrine. The use of these drugs together may produce substantial elevations in blood pressure. If a hypertensive crisis occurs, selegiline should be discontinued and therapy to lower blood pressure should be instituted immediately.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Monitor patients who are concomitantly receiving epinephrine and sevoflurane for the development of arrhythmias. Halogenated anesthetics, such as sevoflurane, sensitize the myocardium and may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. If occur, such arrhythmias may respond to beta-blocker administration. A study investigating the epinephrine induced arrhythmogenic effect of sevoflurane in adult patients undergoing transsphenoidal hypophysectomy demonstrated that the threshold dose of epinephrine (i.e., the dose at which the first sign of arrhythmia was observed) producing multiple ventricular arrhythmias was 5 mcg/kg.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of epinephrine and St. John's Wort. Patients receiving St. John's Wort may experience severe, prolonged hypertension when given epinephrine. St. John's Wort has been shown to weakly inhibit monoamine oxidase and may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
sulfADIAZINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as sulfonamides, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as sulfonamides, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
sulfaSALAzine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as sulfonamides, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Sulfonamides: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as sulfonamides, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Terbutaline: (Major) Concomitant use of sympathomimetics with beta-agonists might result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Use articaine and tetracaine together with caution. Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs, as well as the patient's state of consciousness if used concurrently due to potential for additive CNS and/or cardiovascular toxic effects. Manifestations of toxicity may include CNS excitation and/or depression, cardiac conduction depression, or peripheral vasodilation. Additionally, coadministration may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue local anesthetic use. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity. (Moderate) Theophylline may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) The alpha-adrenergic effects of epinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of thiothixene. This blockade can cause an apparently paradoxical condition called epinephrine reversal, which can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and serum potassium during concomitant epinephrine and loop diuretic use. Loop diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic and hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. (Major) Patients receiving local anesthetics may have an increased risk of hypotension. Combined hypotensive effects are possible with use of MAOIs and spinal anesthetics. When local anesthetics containing sympathomimetic vasoconstrictors (e.g., epinephrine) are coadministered with MAOIs, severe and prolonged hypertension may occur. MAOIs can increase the sensitivity to epinephrine by inhibiting epinephrine reuptake or metabolism. If concurrent therapy is necessary, carefully monitor the patient. Phenelzine and tranylcypromine are contraindicated for use for at least 10 days prior to elective surgery.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and epinephrine use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Corticosteroids may potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant epinephrine and phenothiazine use. Phenothiazines antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by a phenothiazine, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Trimipramine: (Major) Avoid use of epinephrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the vasopressor effects of epinephrine.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as valproic acid, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and local anesthetics may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.


Adverse Reaction
anxiety, back pain, blurred vision, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, migraine, muscle paralysis, paresthesias, respiratory arrest, respiratory depression, restlessness, seizures, tremor


Articaine; epinephrine can produce significant CNS toxicity when high serum concentrations are achieved. CNS toxicity occurs at lower doses and at lower plasma concentrations than those associated with cardiac toxicity, and symptoms of CNS stimulation may occur with subsequent CNS depression. Stimulation reactions such as dizziness and nervousness occurred in < 1% of patients during controlled trials. Other symptoms such as anxiety or apprehension, restlessness, disorientation or confusion, blurred vision, tremor, and seizures have been observed. Seizures may be treated with IV benzodiazepines, although this should be done cautiously because these agents are also CNS depressants. Subsequently, like other local anesthetics, depressive symptoms can occur including drowsiness or sleepiness (reported in 0.5—1.1% of patients), unconsciousness, and respiratory depression (possibly resulting in respiratory arrest). Somnolence has been observed in < 1% of patients given articaine; epinephrine. Other nervous system reactions reported during controlled trials include pain (6.1—13%, with back pain and neck pain occurring in < 1%), headache (3.2—5%, with migraine occurring in < 1%), feelings of numbness and tingling (0.5—1%), and paresthesias (<= 1%). Persistent paresthesias of oral tissues, including the lips and tongue, have been observed following nerve blocks in the mandible affecting the trigeminal nerve and its branches; slow, incomplete, and no recovery has occurred. Reversible hypoesthesia has been reported during post-marketing experience, particularly among pediatric patients. Muscle paralysis (such as facial paralysis), hyperesthesia, neuropathy (types unspecified), and exacerbation of Kearns-Sayre Syndrome were noted in < 1% of patients.


asthenia, edema, malaise


For the body as a whole, rare adverse effects (incidence < 1%) reported with articaine; epinephrine use include asthenia and malaise. Swelling (types unspecified) has been noted in 1.6—2.7% of patients, and edema in < 1%.


arrhythmia exacerbation, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, hypertension, hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, syncope


Blood concentrations of local anesthetics such as articaine; epinephrine achieved after therapeutic doses are associated with minimal changes in cardiac conduction, excitability, refractoriness, and contractility. If a higher blood concentration is achieved due to inadvertent intravascular administration or repeated doses, depression of cardiac excitability and contractility may cause bradycardia, hypotension, ventricular arrhythmia exacerbation, and cardiovascular collapse leading to  cardiac arrest. During controlled trials, sinus tachycardia, hypertension, and syncope occurred in < 1% of patients, while palpitations were observed in up to 1%. Other possible adverse cardiovascular effects associated with intravascular administration or high plasma concentrations of local anesthetics include angina, AV block, QT prolongation, PR prolongation, and atrial fibrillation. Symptoms of local anesthetic CNS toxicity appear to occur before cardiotoxic effects. CNS-mediated cardiac effects in addition to blockade of sodium, potassium, and calcium channels within the heart may be responsible for some adverse cardiac effects. Cardiovascular side effects resulting from articaine; epinephrine administration should be treated with general supportive physiologic measures, such as oxygen therapy, assisted ventilation, and IV fluids.


anaphylactoid reactions, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria


Dermatologic reactions have been observed in patients given articaine; epinephrine. Pruritus and unspecified skin disorders have been observed in < 1% of patients. Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity to the local anesthetic or the sulfite used as a preservative. Other reactions may be characterized by skin rash (unspecified), urticaria, and anaphylactoid reactions. Facial edema was reported in 1% of patients during controlled trials; it is unclear if the edema was of allergic origin.


injection site reaction, tissue necrosis


An injection site reaction may rarely occur in < 1% of patients given articaine; epinephrine. Transient burning can occur at the injection site. Ischemic injury and tissue necrosis likely from epinephrine have been observed after use that may be due to vascular spasm of terminal arterial branches. Preexisting inflammation or infection increases the risk of developing serious skin side effects. Patients should be monitored for an injection site reaction.


methemoglobinemia


Methemoglobinemia has been reported with local anesthetic use. Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after local anesthetic exposure and are characterized by cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood. Other symptoms may include headache, rapid heart rate, shortness of breath, dizziness, and drowsiness. Since methemoglobin concentrations may continue to rise, immediately discontinue articaine; epinephrine to avoid serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse events including seizures, coma, arrhythmias, and death. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may require supportive care, such as oxygen therapy and hydration. More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.


dysgeusia, dyspepsia, gingivitis, glossitis, hypersalivation, nausea, oral ulceration, polydipsia, stomatitis, trismus, vomiting, xerostomia


Most adverse reactions to articaine; epinephrine affecting the digestive system are rare. Those reported in controlled trials in < 1% of patients (n = 882) who received the drug include dysgeusia, dyspepsia, glossitis, gum hemorrhage, hypersalivation, oral ulceration, polydipsia, stomatitis, tongue swelling, xerostomia, and unspecified tooth disorders; gingivitis occurred in 1% of patients. Nausea and vomiting was observed in up to 1.6% of patients in a total of 1243 patients exposed to articaine; epinephrine. Trismus, or the inability to open the mouth completely,was noted in 0.5—1.6% of patients. This may be due accidental needle nicks to muscle or blood vessels during local anesthetic injection, which may cause internal bleeding.


arthralgia, myalgia


Musculoskeletal adverse reactions associated with articaine; epinephrine are rare. Arthralgia, myalgia, and osteomyelitis occurred in < 1% of patients during controlled trials.


cough, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis


Infectious complications have been associated with articaine; epinephrine. Unspecified infection was observed in 1% of patients who received articaine; epinephrine for dental procedures during clinical trials. Pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinus pain or congestion were rarely reported in < 1% of patients. A persistent cough occurred in up to 1% of patients.


bleeding, ecchymosis, lymphadenopathy


Ecchymosis, hemorrhage (bleeding), and lymphadenopathy were reported in less than 1% of patients during clinical trials.


diplopia, mydriasis, otalgia, ptosis, tinnitus


Sensory reactions have been associated with articaine; epinephrine. Otalgia or ear pain occurred in <= 1% of patients during controlled trials, while otitis media occurred in 0.5—1% of patients. Tinnitus has been noted. Ocular muscle paralysis has occurred immediately following injection, mostly following posterior, superior alveolar injections during dental procedures. Symptoms may include diplopia, mydriasis, ptosis, and difficulty in abduction. Paralysis may last 1 minute to several hours. Patients usually experience complete recovery of ocular muscle function.


Description

Articaine is a short-acting local anesthetic of the amide type. The structure of articaine is similar to other amide local anesthetics except it contains an additional ester group, which is quickly hydrolyzed by esterases. The rapid breakdown of articaine leads to a low level of systemic toxicity. Articaine is better able to diffuse through soft tissues and bone than other local anesthetics. Articaine without epinephrine has been shown to be as effective as lidocaine or prilocaine during intravenous regional anesthesia; although, articaine may have a faster onset of action and lower peak systemic concentrations. The FDA approved articaine-epinephrine in May 2000 for use as a local anesthetic during dental and periodontal procedures. Articaine is widely used in Europe for dental procedures and is available as Ultracaine(R) (articaine 5%).

Mechanism Of Action

Articaine and epinephrine are used in combination for local anesthesia.
•Articaine: Like all local anesthetics, articaine causes a reversible nerve-conduction blockade by decreasing nerve membrane permeability to sodium. This decreases the rate of membrane depolarization, thereby increasing the threshold for electrical excitability. The blockade affects all nerve fibers in the following sequence: autonomic, sensory, and motor, with effects diminishing in reverse order. Loss of nerve function clinically is as follows: pain, temperature, touch, proprioception, and skeletal muscle tone. Direct nerve membrane penetration is necessary for effective anesthesia, which is achieved by injecting the local anesthetic solution subcutaneously, intradermally, or submucosally around the nerve trunks or ganglia supplying the area to be anesthetized.
 
Systemic absorption of local anesthetics can produce effects on the central nervous and cardiovascular systems. At blood concentrations achieved with therapeutic doses, changes in cardiac conduction, excitability, refractoriness, contractility, and peripheral vascular resistance have been reported. Toxic blood concentrations depress cardiac conduction and excitability, which may lead to AV block, ventricular arrhythmia, and cardiac arrest, sometimes resulting in fatalities. In addition, myocardial contractility is depressed and peripheral vasodilation occurs, leading to decreased cardiac output and arterial blood pressure. Local anesthetics can produce central nervous system stimulation, depression, or both following systemic absorption. CNS stimulation is usually manifested as restlessness, tremors, and shivering progressing to convulsions, followed by depression and coma, progressing ultimately to respiratory arrest. However, local anesthetics have a primary depressant effect on the medulla and higher centers. The depressed stage may occur without the prior excitatory stage.
 
•Epinephrine: Epinephrine is used in combination with local anesthetics to increase the duration of anesthesia. Epinephrine acts as a vasoconstrictor to promote local hemostasis and to decrease systemic absorption of the local anesthetic agent.

Pharmacokinetics

Articaine; epinephrine is administered by submucosal injection. The duration of anesthesia lasts approximately 1 hour. Approximately 60—80% of articaine is bound to human albumin and gamma globulins. Articaine effectively penetrates soft tissue and bone. Articaine is rapidly metabolized by plasma carboxyesterases to its primary metabolite, articainic acid, which is inactive. Metabolism is saturable at high doses. Saturation of these esterases may be advantageous leading to a persistence of articaine anesthetic effects locally, while rapid systemic metabolism leads to low toxicity. In vitro studies show that hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes metabolize 5—10% of the drug to articainic acid. The elimination half-life of articaine is about 1.8 hours. Articaine is eliminated in the kidneys as articainic acid (40—70%), articainic acid glucoronide (4—15%), and as unchanged drug (2—5%).

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Other Route(s)

Submucosal route
The onset of anesthesia following administration of articaine; epinephrine has been shown to be within 1—6 minutes of injection. Following dental injection of an articaine solution containing 1:200,000 epinephrine by the submucosal route, peak plasma concentrations are achieved in about 25 minutes after a single dose and 48 minutes after three injections. The concentration of articaine in the alveolus of a tooth after extraction from the upper jaw is about 100-times higher than that in the systemic circulation. Administration of articaine with epinephrine results in a 3- to 5-fold increase in plasma epinephrine levels compared to baseline; however, in healthy adults, it does not appear to be associated with marked increases in blood pressure or heart rate, except with accidental intravascular administration.

Hepatic Impairment

There have been no studies to examine the pharmacokinetics of articaine; epinephrine in patients with hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

There have been no studies to examine the pharmacokinetics of articaine; epinephrine in patients with renal impairment.

Pediatrics

Children exhibit pharmacokinetic parameters similar to those of adults receiving articaine; epinephrine.

Elderly

In a study of elderly and young healthy volunteers, the clearance and volume of distribution of articaine (without epinephrine) infiltration were significantly lower in the elderly volunteers compared with young volunteers. The AUC, maximum serum concentrations, elimination half-life, and the time to maximum serum concentrations did not differ between the two age groups.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Articaine; epinephrine is for administration by or under the supervision of health care providers who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of emergencies that might arise from local anesthetic use.
Small doses of local anesthetics injected into the head and neck area, including retrobulbar, dental, and stellate ganglion blocks, may produce adverse reactions similar to systemic toxicity seen with unintentional intravascular injections of larger doses. These reactions may be due to intra-arterial injection of the local anesthetic with retrograde flow to the cerebral circulation.
Monitor cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of ventilation) vital signs and the individual's state of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection.
Ensure oxygen, other resuscitative medications and equipment, and personnel are immediately available.


Other Injectable Administration

Infiltration or Perineural Administration
Prior to using the glass cartridges, disinfect by wiping the cap thoroughly with USP isopropyl alcohol (70%). Avoid use of isopropyl alcohol, as well as solutions of ethyl alcohol that are not of USP grade, because they may contain denaturants that are injurious to rubber.
Immersion is not recommended.
Aspiration prior to local anesthetic injection is recommended, since it reduces the possibility of intravascular injection.
If blood is aspirated, the needle must be repositioned until no return of blood can be elicited by aspiration. Note, however, that the absence of blood in the syringe does not assure that intravascular injection will be avoided.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg, equivalent to 0.175 mL/kg, by intraoral submucosal infiltration or nerve block.

Geriatric

Articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg, equivalent to 0.175 mL/kg, by intraoral submucosal infiltration or nerve block.

Adolescents

Articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg, equivalent to 0.175 mL/kg, by intraoral submucosal infiltration or nerve block. Determine dosage by the age and weight of the adolescent and the type of the procedure.

Children

4 to 12 years: Articaine 7 mg/kg and epinephrine 0.0017 mg/kg, equivalent to 0.175 mL/kg, by intraoral submucosal infiltration or nerve block. Determine dosage by the age and weight of the child and the type of the procedure.
1 to 3 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Septocaine 4%-1:100,000 Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Articaine is extensively metabolized by the liver. Lower doses of articaine may be required in patients with hepatic dysfunction due to prolonged effects and systemic accumulation. Specific dosing guidelines are not available.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier