=== Alcaftadine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3714)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alcaftadine is a topical ophthalmic H1-antagonist and an inhibitor of mast cell histamine release.

Routes: ophthalmic; Common adult doses: 1 drop/day ophthalmic solution in each eye.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): blurred vision, lacrimation, ocular discharge, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pain, ocular pruritus, angioedema, drowsiness, headache, pharyngitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Alcaftadine ophthalmic solution is formulated with the preservative benzalkonium chloride 0.005%, which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses. Alcaftadine is not indicated for treatment of contact lens-related irritation.

ALCAFTADINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

LASTACAFT

Indication Specific Dosing

For the prevention of ocular pruritus associated with allergic conjunctivitis

Ophthalmic dosage (0.25% ophthalmic solution)
Adults


1 drop in the affected eye(s) once daily.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years


1 drop in the affected eye(s) once daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

contact lenses


The manufacturer recommends removing contact lenses prior to and for 10 minutes after administration of alcaftadine ophthalmic solution. Alcaftadine ophthalmic solution is formulated with the preservative benzalkonium chloride 0.005%, which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses. Alcaftadine is not indicated for treatment of contact lens-related irritation. Further, advise patients to avoid wearing contact lenses if their eyes become red.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of alcaftadine use during pregnancy. In animal studies involving rats (20 mg/kg/day oral alcaftadine) and rabbits (80 mg/kg/day oral alcaftadine), no fetal or maternal toxicities were observed after exposure during the period of organogenesis. The plasma exposures in the pregnant rats and rabbits were 230- and 8,819-times higher, respectively, than the plasma exposure after a recommended human ocular dose. Lower pup weights were observed with 20 and 30 mg/kg/day doses of oral alcaftadine that were administered to rats from day 6 of pregnancy until day 20 postpartum; no adverse effects were observed with the 5 mg/kg/day dose. Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response, only administer alcaftadine during pregnancy if the benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.


breast-feeding


Use alcaftadine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data regarding the presence of alcaftadine in human milk, the effects on a breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for alcaftadine, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of alcaftadine use during pregnancy. In animal studies involving rats (20 mg/kg/day oral alcaftadine) and rabbits (80 mg/kg/day oral alcaftadine), no fetal or maternal toxicities were observed after exposure during the period of organogenesis. The plasma exposures in the pregnant rats and rabbits were 230- and 8,819-times higher, respectively, than the plasma exposure after a recommended human ocular dose. Lower pup weights were observed with 20 and 30 mg/kg/day doses of oral alcaftadine that were administered to rats from day 6 of pregnancy until day 20 postpartum; no adverse effects were observed with the 5 mg/kg/day dose. Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response, only administer alcaftadine during pregnancy if the benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Alcaftadine products.

Adverse Reaction
blurred vision, lacrimation, ocular discharge, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pain, ocular pruritus


The most frequently reported (less than 4%) ocular adverse events associated with the use of alcaftadine during clinical trials included ocular irritation, ocular pain (burning and/or stinging sensation during instillation), ocular redness, and ocular pruritus. Ophthalmic-related adverse effects reported during post-marketing use of alcaftadine include ocular discharge, ocular inflammation, ocular swelling, eyelid erythema, blurred vision, and increased lacrimation.


angioedema, drowsiness, headache, pharyngitis


Systemic adverse reactions, including cases of nasopharyngitis and headache, were reported in less than 3% of alcaftadine recipients during clinical trials. According to the manufacturer, some reported adverse events were similar to the underlying disease being studied. Systemic adverse reactions rarely reported during post-marketing use of alcaftadine include drowsiness (somnolence) and hypersensitivity reactions, including swelling of the face (angioedema) or allergic dermatitis.


Description

Alcaftadine is a topical ophthalmic H1-antagonist and an inhibitor of mast cell histamine release. It is indicated for the prevention of ocular pruritus associated with allergic conjunctivitis in adults and pediatric patients age 2 years or older. The drug is long-acting which allows for once daily administration. The FDA approved alcaftadine 0.25% ophthalmic solution in July 2010; in December 2021, it was approved for over-the-counter (OTC) use.

Mechanism Of Action

Alcaftadine is a topically active, H1-receptor antagonist (antihistamine) and an inhibitor of histamine release from mast cells. After topical ocular administration, alcaftadine inhibits histamine-stimulated vascular permeability in the conjunctiva, thereby preventing the formation of ocular edema and wheal. Alcaftadine has also been shown to decrease chemotaxis and activation of eosinophils. As a result of these pharmacologic actions, alcaftadine relieves ocular pruritus associated with allergic conjunctivitis.

Pharmacokinetics

Alcaftadine is administered topically to the eyes. Once absorbed, alcaftadine is metabolized by non-CYP450 enzymes to an active metabolite, carboxylic acid. The protein binding of alcaftadine and carboxylic acid are 39.2% and 62.7%, respectively. Carboxylic acid has a half-life of approximately 2 hours and is primarily eliminated unchanged in the urine.
 
Affected cytochrome (CYP) 450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None
In vitro studies showed that neither alcaftadine nor the carboxylic acid metabolite substantially inhibited reactions catalyzed by major CYP450 enzymes.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Other Route(s)

Ophthalmic Route
Systemic absorption is limited after ophthalmic administration of alcaftadine. Instilling alcaftadine into both eyes results in a mean peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) of approximately 60 pg/mL. The median time to reach peak plasma concentration (Tmax) is 15 minutes, and the plasma concentrations fall below the limits of quantification (10 pg/mL) by 3 hours post-dose. The Cmax for carboxylic acid is approximately 3 ng/mL and occurs about 1 hour after dosing. The plasma concentrations of carboxylic acid are detectable for up to 12 hours after dosing. According to the manufacturer, there appears to be no systemic accumulation of alcaftadine or the active metabolite after daily topical ocular administration.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Ophthalmic Administration


For topical administration to the eyes only.
Wash hands prior to and after use. Tilt the head back slightly and pull the lower eyelid down with the index finger. Squeeze one drop into the conjunctival sac of each eye and gently close eyes for 1 to 2 minutes. Do not blink.
Take care to avoid contamination. Do not touch the tip of the dropper to the eye, fingertips, or other surface.
Instruct patients to remove contact lenses prior to instilling the ophthalmic solution; contact lenses may be reinserted 10 minutes after administration of the ophthalmic solution.
If more than 1 topical ophthalmic medication is being used, separate administration by at least 5 minutes.
Do not share ophthalmic drops between patients.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

1 drop/day ophthalmic solution in each eye.

Geriatric

1 drop/day ophthalmic solution in each eye.

Adolescents

1 drop/day ophthalmic solution in each eye.

Children

2 years and older: 1 drop/day ophthalmic solution in each eye.
younger than 2 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

LASTACAFT 0.25% Ophthalmic Solution

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier