=== Ponesimod (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5319)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ponesimod is an oral sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS) in adults, to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): av block, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), qt prolongation, cystitis, infection, lymphopenia, rhinitis, sinusitis, encephalopathy, immune reconstitution syndrome, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, insomnia, migraine, seizures, vertigo, fatigue, fever, hypercholesterolemia, hyperkalemia, merkel cell carcinoma, new primary malignancy, skin cancer

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Ponesimod is contraindicated in people who in the past 6 months have experienced acute coronary syndrome (e.g., myocardial infarction, unstable angina), stroke or transient ischemic...

Brand Names
  - PONVORY

Dosage Forms
  - Ponvory 20mg Tablet
  - Ponvory Tablet Starter Pack

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Prior to ponesimod therapy initiation
Obtain a recent (within the last 6 months or after discontinuation of prior MS therapy) complete blood count, including lymphocyte count.
Obtain an electrocardiogram (ECG) in all patients. Certain patients with preexisting conditions also require a cardiac evaluation by an appropriately trained physician prior to treatment initiation.
Determine whether patients are taking drugs that could slow heart rate or atrioventricular (AV) conduction prior to treatment initiation.
Evaluate the use of concomitant immunosuppressive medications and consider their additive effects.
Test patients without a confirmed history of chickenpox or without documentation of a full course of vaccination against varicella zoster virus (VZV) for antibodies to VZV prior to treatment initiation. Vaccinate antibody-negative patients prior to treatment initiation. Postpone ponesimod initiation for 1 month after vaccination with live attenuated vaccines to allow the full effect of vaccination to occur.
Obtain serum transaminase (ALT and AST) and total bilirubin concentrations if they have not been acquired in the last 6 months.
Obtain an ophthalmologic evaluation of the fundus, including the macula, near the start of treatment.
Perform a baseline skin examination before or shortly after treatment initiation. Promptly evaluate any suspicious skin lesions.
 
First dose monitoring in patients with certain preexisting cardiac conditions
Administer the first dose in a setting that has adequate resources to manage symptomatic bradycardia. Perform 4-hour first-dose monitoring in patients with sinus bradycardia (heart rate less than 55 bpm), first- or second-degree (Mobitz type 1) AV block, or a history of myocardial infarction or heart failure with onset more than 6 months prior to initiation and in stable condition.
Monitor for bradycardia with hourly pulse and blood pressure measurement. Obtain an ECG at the end of the day 1 observation period.
Continue monitoring if any of the following abnormalities are present after 4 hours, with or without clinical symptoms:
Heart rate 4 hours post-dose is less than 45 bpm.
Heart rate 4 hours post-dose is at lowest value post-dose, suggesting that the maximum pharmacodynamic effect may not have occurred.
New onset second-degree or higher AV block is present on ECG 4 hours postdose.
Begin appropriate clinical management for post-dose symptomatic bradycardia, bradyarrhythmia, or conduction-related symptoms or if ECG 4 hours post-dose shows new onset second degree or higher AV block or QTc of 500 msec or greater. Begin continuous ECG monitoring, and continue monitoring until symptoms resolved if no pharmacological treatment is required. If pharmacological treatment is required, continue monitoring overnight and repeat 4-hour monitoring after the second dose.
Seek advice from a cardiologist regarding the most appropriate monitoring strategy in patients with certain preexisting heart and cerebrovascular conditions; a prolonged QTc interval before dosing or during the 4-hour observation, at additional risk for QT prolongation, or on concurrent therapy with QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsade de pointes; or receiving concurrent therapy with drugs that slow heart rate or AV conduction.
 
When to repeat recommended monitoring procedures
Repeat first dose monitoring procedures in patients for whom it is recommended if ponesimod dosing/administration is interrupted for 4 or more consecutive daily doses.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily on days 1 and 2, then 3 mg PO once daily on days 3 and 4, then 4 mg PO once daily on days 5 and 6, then 5 mg PO once daily on day 7, then 6 mg PO once daily on day 8, then 7 mg PO once daily on day 9, then 8 mg PO once daily on day 10, then 9 mg PO once daily on day 11, then 10 mg PO once daily on days 12 to 14, then 20 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, including clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    acute coronary syndrome, acute heart failure, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cerebrovascular disease, heart failure, hypertension, syncope
    General Information
    Ponesimod is contraindicated in people who in the past 6 months have experienced acute coronary syndrome (e.g., myocardial infarction, unstable angina), stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA), decompensated acute heart failure requiring hospitalization, New York Heart Association Class III heart failure, or New York Heart Association Class IV heart failure. Ponesimod is also contraindicated in people with a history or presence of Mobitz Type II second or third-degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome, or sino-atrial block unless the patient has a functioning pacemaker. Ponesimod causes reduced heart rate and may induce bradyarrhythmias or AV block. Ponesimod-induced effects on heart rate are maximal 2 to 4 hours after the first dose and typically recovers to baseline levels 4 to 5 hours after therapy initiation. Since significant bradycardia may be poorly tolerated in patients with certain forms of cardiac disease, ponesimod is not recommended for use in individuals with a history of cardiac arrest, cerebrovascular disease or stroke, uncontrolled hypertension, or significant bradycardia. People with some preexisting conditions (e.g., ischemic heart disease, atrial flutter/fibrillation or cardiac arrhythmias treated with Class Ia or Class III anti-arrhythmic medications, congestive heart failure, AV block, sinus node dysfunction (e.g., sick sinus syndrome or sinoatrial block), history of syncope, or symptomatic bradycardia may poorly tolerate ponesimod-induced bradycardia or experience serious rhythm disturbances after the first dose. Prior to treatment with ponesimod, these patients should have a cardiac evaluation by a physician appropriately trained to conduct such evaluation to determine appropriate monitoring (which may include overnight monitoring). Because of a risk for bradyarrhythmia and AV block, patients with preexisting cardiac conditions must receive the recommended monitoring for the first dose of ponesimod, and this monitoring should also be followed in those who restart ponesimod after discontinuation for longer than 4 days. Ponesimod may also increase blood pressure and produce hypertension, so all patients should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring during treatment. Concomitant use of other drugs that decrease heart rate with ponesimod may produce severe bradycardia and heart block; ponesimod may be initiated in patients taking a stable dose of a beta-blocker with a resting heart rate of more than 55 beats/minute. Consultation with a cardiologist is recommended before ponesimod initiation for patients taking other medications known to affect heart rate.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of ponesimod in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsades de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsades de pointes may further increase risk. In individuals with a prolonged QTc interval before ponesimod dosing or during the 4-hour observation, or at additional risk for QT prolongation, or on concurrent therapy with QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsades de pointes, seek advice from a cardiologist to determine the most appropriate monitoring strategy (which may include overnight monitoring) during treatment initiation.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Avoid vaccination with live vaccines due to potential immunosuppression and increased risk of infection during ponesimod therapy. Test individuals for antibodies to varicella zoster virus (VZV) before initiating ponesimod. VZV vaccination of antibody-negative patients is recommended prior to the start of ponesimod therapy. Postpone therapy for 1 month to allow the full effect of vaccination to occur.
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    People with active infection should not start ponesimod treatment until the infection is resolved. Ponesimod may increase the risk for infection. Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection during treatment. Serious infections with opportunistic pathogens including viral infection [e.g., John Cunningham virus (JCV), herpes infection, varicella-zoster], fungal infection (e.g., cryptococcal infection), and bacterial infection have been reported with ponesimod or other sphingosine 1-phosphate inhibitors. Cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) have also occurred in MS patients who received sphingosine 1-phosphate inhibitors. PML is an opportunistic viral infection of the brain caused by the JC virus (JCV) that typically only occurs in patients who are immunocompromised, and that usually leads to death or severe disability. If a serious infection occurs, institute appropriate therapy and withhold treatment until the infection resolves. Reassess the benefits and risks of re-initiating therapy. If PML is confirmed, ponesimod should be permanently discontinued. Ponesimod remains in the blood and has pharmacodynamic effects, including decreased lymphocyte counts, for 1 to 2 weeks following the last dose, and increased risks for infection may continue during this time. Lymphocyte counts generally return to the normal range within 1 to 2 weeks of stopping therapy. Consider the risks of additive effects (e.g., immunosuppression) of other medications even during times of discontinuation. A recent CBC (i.e., within 6 months or after discontinuation of prior therapy) should be available before initiating or re-initiating ponesimod treatment.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, uveitis
    General Information
    Ponesimod increases the risk of macular edema. Individuals with a history of uveitis and individuals with diabetes mellitus are at increased risk of macular edema during ponesimod treatment. Obtain an ophthalmologic evaluation of the fundus, including the macula, near the start of treatment in all patients, periodically during treatment, and if visual disturbance is reported during ponesimod therapy.  Continuation of ponesimod in patients with macular edema has not been evaluated. Consider discontinuation of ponesimod therapy if macular edema develops. The decision to continue treatment in patients with macular edema should be based on the benefits and risks to the patient. The risk of recurrence after a rechallenge is unknown. Macular edema may lead to permanent visual loss over an extended period of time (e.g., 6 months).
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Ponesimod is not recommended for use in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, including hepatic failure. Elevated hepatic enzymes may occur in ponesimod recipients. The median time to hepatic enzyme elevation, defined as 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), was 3 months during clinical trials, but many individuals continued treatment and experience lessening of the elevations. Recent (i.e., within the last 6 months) transaminase and bilirubin concentrations should be assessed before initiating ponesimod therapy. Monitor liver function tests (LFTs) and bilirubin in patients who develop symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction, such as unexplained nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, anorexia, jaundice and/or dark urine. Discontinue ponesimod if significant liver injury is confirmed.
    Headline
    asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pulmonary fibrosis, respiratory insufficiency, sleep apnea
    General Information
    Ponesimod is not recommended for use in patients with severe untreated sleep apnea. Cautious use of ponesimod may be warranted for patients with respiratory insufficiency from severe pulmonary disease such as pulmonary fibrosis, asthma, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Dose-dependent reductions in absolute forced expiratory volume over 1 second (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC), and diffusion lung capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) were seen during the first month of ponesimod treatment during clinical trials. There is insufficient information to determine the reversibility of the decrease in FEV1 or FVC after drug discontinuation. Spirometric evaluation of respiratory function should be performed during therapy with ponesimod if clinically indicated.
    Headline
    skin cancer
    General Information
    Perform a baseline skin examination before or shortly after ponesimod initiation and periodically during treatment for all patients, particularly for those with risk factors for skin cancer. Monitor for and promptly evaluate any suspicious skin lesions. Ponesimod was associated with an increased risk of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) during clinical trials. Melanoma, squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), Kaposi's sarcoma, and Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported during treatment with ponesimod and other sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor (S1P) modulators.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Ponesimod may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on animal data and its mechanism of action. Advise pregnant people of the potential fetal risk. There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of ponesimod during human pregnancy. In rats and rabbits exposed to ponesimod during organogenesis, visceral and skeletal malformations (including limb malformations and cardiovascular system defects such as ventricular septal defects) occurred at clinically relevant exposures. In both species, plasma exposure at the no-effect dose for adverse embryo-fetal developmental effects was less than the human exposure at the recommended human dose (based on AUC). Ponesimod targets the sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor, which is known to be involved in vascular formation and neural development during embryogenesis. Experts generally recommend discontinuing sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulators during pregnancy.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with ponesimod. Ponesimod may cause fetal harm. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking ponesimod and for 1 week after the last dose. Discuss family planning early and frequently in patients with multiple sclerosis, using shared decision-making to align pregnancy timing with disease stability, treatment selection and washout needs, contraception, and fertility considerations.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking ponesimod. There are no data on the presence of ponesimod in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Ponesimod has been detected in the milk of lactating rats. Ponesimod is highly protein bound and therefore is not expected to transfer into human milk in clinically significant amounts. However, the drug's slow clearance and long half-life may pose a risk of toxicity to the breastfed child. For patients with multiple sclerosis who are breastfeeding, consider alternative therapies such as glatiramer, interferon beta-1a, or interferon beta-1b.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Ponesimod may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on animal data and its mechanism of action. Advise pregnant people of the potential fetal risk. There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of ponesimod during human pregnancy. In rats and rabbits exposed to ponesimod during organogenesis, visceral and skeletal malformations (including limb malformations and cardiovascular system defects such as ventricular septal defects) occurred at clinically relevant exposures. In both species, plasma exposure at the no-effect dose for adverse embryo-fetal developmental effects was less than the human exposure at the recommended human dose (based on AUC). Ponesimod targets the sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor, which is known to be involved in vascular formation and neural development during embryogenesis. Experts generally recommend discontinuing sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulators during pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking ponesimod. There are no data on the presence of ponesimod in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Ponesimod has been detected in the milk of lactating rats. Ponesimod is highly protein bound and therefore is not expected to transfer into human milk in clinically significant amounts. However, the drug's slow clearance and long half-life may pose a risk of toxicity to the breastfed child. For patients with multiple sclerosis who are breastfeeding, consider alternative therapies such as glatiramer, interferon beta-1a, or interferon beta-1b.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Alemtuzumab: (Major) Initiating treatment with ponesimod after alemtuzumab treatment is not recommended due to the characteristics and duration of the immunosuppressive effects of alemtuzumab.
Alfuzosin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking alfuzosin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking amisulpride due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration-dependent QT prolongation.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking clarithromycin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Anagrelide: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking anagrelide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Apomorphine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking apomorphine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking aripiprazole due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of arsenic trioxide and ponesimod due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant drug use is unavoidable, frequently monitor ECGs and for signs and symptoms of infection. Torsade de pointes (TdP), QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking artemether; lumefantrine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and consider ECG monitoring. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Asenapine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking asenapine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Atomoxetine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking atomoxetine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with ponesimod due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Bedaquiline: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking bedaquiline due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Beta-blockers (without QT/QTc prolongation): (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Buprenorphine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking buprenorphine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of TdP.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking buprenorphine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of TdP.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking rilpivirine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ponesimod and ceritinib due to the risk of severe bradycardia and heart block, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with ponesimod due to the increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and TdP; the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking chlorpromazine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Chlorpromazine is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with ponesimod is contraindicated due to the risk for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Citalopram: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking citalopram due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Clarithromycin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking clarithromycin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
cloNIDine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ponesimod and medications that may decrease heart rate such as clonidine due to the risk for severe bradycardia and heart block. Consider consultation from a cardiologist if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking clozapine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, TdP, cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking promethazine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Promethazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking promethazine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Promethazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Corticosteroids (systemic): (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ponesimod and crizotinib due to the risk of severe bradycardia and heart block, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib can cause concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Dasatinib: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking dasatinib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Degarelix: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking degarelix due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desflurane: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking halogenated anesthetics due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking deutetrabenazine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking quinidine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Digoxin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ponesimod and medications that may decrease heart rate such as digoxin due to the risk for severe bradycardia and heart block. Consider consultation from a cardiologist if concomitant use is necessary.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ponesimod and medications that may decrease heart rate such as diltiazem due to the risk for severe bradycardia and heart block. Consider consultation from a cardiologist if concomitant use is necessary.
Disopyramide: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking disopyramide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Dofetilide: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking dofetilide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking rilpivirine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking donepezil due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and TdP can occur during donepezil therapy.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking donepezil due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and TdP can occur during donepezil therapy.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with ponesimod is contraindicated due to the risk for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
droPERidol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of droperidol with ponesimod due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration cannot be avoided, seek advice from a cardiologist and initiate droperidol at a low dose. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Efavirenz: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking efavirenz due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking efavirenz due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking efavirenz due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Eliglustat: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking eliglustat due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking rilpivirine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking rilpivirine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Encorafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ponesimod and encorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Entrectinib: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking entrectinib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
eriBULin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking eribulin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, monitor ECGs and for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking erythromycin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Erythromycin is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Escitalopram: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking escitalopram due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Escitalopram has been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Flecainide: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking flecainide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP; flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs that have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias.
Fluconazole: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking fluconazole due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP.
FLUoxetine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking fluoxetine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Fluoxetine is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Concurrent use of ponesimod and fluphenazine may increase the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking fluvoxamine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Fluvoxamine is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Foscarnet: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking foscarnet due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Both QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of foscarnet.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fostemsavir: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking fostemsavir due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking gemifloxacin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking gemtuzumab due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment; monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Gilteritinib: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking gilteritinib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and ponesimod due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Goserelin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking goserelin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking granisetron due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking halogenated anesthetics due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking haloperidol due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation and TdP have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking histrelin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of hydroxychloroquine and ponesimod due to the risk of increased QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking hydroxyzine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Postmarketing data indicate that hydroxyzine causes QT prolongation and TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking ibutilide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and TdP; proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Iloperidone: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking iloperidone due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab and ponesimod due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain ECGs and electrolytes prior to the start of treatment and periodically during treatment and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Isoflurane: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking halogenated anesthetics due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Itraconazole: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking itraconazole due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ponesimod and medications that may decrease heart rate such as ivabradine due to the risk for severe bradycardia and heart block. Consider consultation from a cardiologist if concomitant use is necessary.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with ponesimod if possible due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ponesimod due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking clarithromycin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Lapatinib: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking lapatinib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and TdP have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lasmiditan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ponesimod and medications that may decrease heart rate such as lasmiditan due to the risk for severe bradycardia and heart block. Consider consultation from a cardiologist if concomitant use is necessary.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with ponesimod as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, ECG monitoring is recommended during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Lenvatinib: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking lenvatinib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy.
Leuprolide: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking leuprolide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ponesimod due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Lithium: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking lithium due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Lithium has been associated with QT prolongation.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Lofexidine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking lofexidine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Lofexidine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Loperamide: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking loperamide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking loperamide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with ponesimod due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ponesimod. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Mefloquine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking mefloquine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation.
Methadone: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking methadone due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Methadone is associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Midostaurin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking midostaurin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, monitor ECGs and for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking mifepristone due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Mifepristone is associated with dose-related prolongation of the QT interval.
Mirtazapine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking mirtazapine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Mirtazapine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval; TdP has been reported postmarketing primarily in overdose or in patients with other risk factors for QT prolongation.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking moxifloxacin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Nilotinib: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking nilotinib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Sudden death and QT interval prolongation have occurred in patients who received nilotinib therapy.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
OLANZapine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking olanzapine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Limited date, including some case reports suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking fluoxetine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Fluoxetine is associated with QT prolongation and TdP. (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking olanzapine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Limited date, including some case reports suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking olanzapine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Limited date, including some case reports suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Ondansetron: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking ondansetron due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Ondansetron has been associated with a dose-related increase in the QT interval and postmarketing reports of TdP.
Osilodrostat: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking osilodrostat due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ponesimod with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking oxaliplatin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including fatal TdP, have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Paliperidone: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking paliperidone due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose.
Panobinostat: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking panobinostat due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat.
Pasireotide: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking pasireotide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and ponesimod due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection; correct hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalcemia. Pazopanib has been associated with QT prolongation. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Pentamidine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking pentamidine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Systemic pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Concomitant use of ponesimod and perphenazine may increase the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Concomitant use of ponesimod and perphenazine may increase the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Pimavanserin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking pimavanserin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of pimozide with ponesimod is contraindicated due to the risk for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Pitolisant: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking pitolisant due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Posaconazole: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking posaconazole due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of TdP.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Procainamide: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking procainamide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Concomitant use of ponesimod and prochlorperazine may increase the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking promethazine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Promethazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking promethazine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Promethazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking promethazine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Promethazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Propafenone: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking propafenone due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Propafenone is a Class IC antiarrhythmic which increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
QUEtiapine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking quetiapine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Quetiapine has been associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances.
quiNIDine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking quinidine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
quiNINE: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking quinine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ranolazine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking ranolazine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval.
Relugolix: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking relugolix due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking relugolix due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ribociclib: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking ribociclib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; the ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first4 weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking ribociclib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; the ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first4 weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption.
Rilpivirine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking rilpivirine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking risperidone due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP, primarily in the overdose setting.
romiDEPsin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking romidepsin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of saquinavir boosted with ritonavir with ponesimod due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Selpercatinib: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking selpercatinib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs and for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy.
Sertraline: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking sertraline due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. The risk of sertraline-induced QT prolongation is generally considered to be low in clinical practice. Its effect on QTc interval is minimal (typically less than 5 msec), and the drug has been used safely in patients with cardiac disease (e.g., recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, chronic heart failure.
Sevoflurane: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking halogenated anesthetics due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Solifenacin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking solifenacin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. TdP has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with ponesimod due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs and for signs and symptoms of infection; correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Sorafenib is associated with QTc prolongation. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Sotalol: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking sotalol due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Sotalol administration is associated with QT prolongation and TdP. Proarrhythmic events should be anticipated after initiation of therapy and after each upward dosage adjustment.
SUNItinib: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking sunitinib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking tacrolimus due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Tacrolimus may prolong the QT interval and cause TdP.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Tamoxifen: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking tamoxifen due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Tamoxifen has been reported to prolong the QT interval, usually in overdose or when used in high doses. Rare case reports of QT prolongation have also been described when tamoxifen is used at lower doses.
Telavancin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking telavancin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking tetrabenazine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc).
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of thioridazine with ponesimod is contraindicated due to the risk for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreases in heart rate if concomitant use of ponesimod and beta-blockers is necessary. Consider a temporary interruption in beta-blocker therapy before initiating ponesimod in patients with a resting heart rate less than or equal to 55 bpm. Beta-blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of ponesimod. Concomitant use of another beta-blocker with ponesimod resulted in a mean decrease in heart rate of 12.4 bpm after the first dose of ponesimod and 7.4 bpm after beginning maintenance ponesimod.
Tolterodine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking tolterodine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ponesimod with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation, monitor electrolytes, and seek advice from a cardiologist. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ponesimod and medications that may decrease heart rate such as verapamil due to the risk for severe bradycardia and heart block. Consider consultation from a cardiologist if concomitant use is necessary.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Concomitant use of ponesimod and trifluoperazine may increase the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking triptorelin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Vamorolone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Additive immune suppression may result from concomitant use of ponesimod and high-dose corticosteroid therapy which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with ponesimod due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Vardenafil: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking vardenafil due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Vardenafil is associated with QT prolongation. Both therapeutic and supratherapeutic doses of vardenafil produce an increase in QTc interval.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Vemurafenib: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking vemurafenib due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Vemurafenib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; the ECG changes occurred within the first month of treatment.
Venlafaxine: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking venlafaxine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Venlafaxine is associated with a possible risk of QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) has reported with postmarketing use.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ponesimod and medications that may decrease heart rate such as verapamil due to the risk for severe bradycardia and heart block. Consider consultation from a cardiologist if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking voclosporin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of voclosporin may prolong the QT interval.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking clarithromycin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Voriconazole: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking voriconazole due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP.
Vorinostat: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking vorinostat due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ziprasidone: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking ziprasidone due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are post marketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    AV block, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), QT prolongation
    General Information
    Initiation of ponesimod results in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular (AV) conduction delays. An up-titration of the dose using the recommended titration schedule is necessary to minimize decreases in heart rate. Following dose titration, decreases in heart rate are less pronounced. The decrease in heart rate induced by ponesimod can be reversed by atropine. In a randomized, active comparator-controlled trial, bradycardia at treatment initiation and sinus bradycardia on ECG (heart rate less than 50 bpm) occurred in 5.8% of ponesimod-treated patients (n = 565) compared to 1.6% of teriflunomide treated patients (n = 566). The mean decrease in heart rate on day 1 of treatment was 6 bpm. A decrease in heart rate typically begins within 1 hour of dosing and reaches its nadir in 2 to 4 hours, with recovery to baseline 4 to 5 hours following administration. No patients discontinued ponesimod because of bradycardia. On day 1, three ponesimod-treated patients had asymptomatic post-dose heart rates less than or equal to 40 bpm; all patients had baseline heart rates less than 55 bpm. AV conduction delays manifested as first-degree AV block (prolonged PR interval on ECG) occurred in 3.4% of ponesimod-treated patients and in 1.2% of teriflunomide-treated patients. The AV conduction delays were usually transient, asymptomatic, and resolved within 24 hours without intervention; discontinuation of ponesimod did not occur. Second- and third-degree AV blocks were not reported. In a 6-month placebo-controlled study, chest pain (unspecified)/discomfort occurred in at least 2% of ponesimod-treated patients and at a higher rate than in placebo-treated patients. QT prolongation may also occur with ponesimod. In a study with doses of 40 mg and 100 mg (2- and 5-times the recommended dose), a prolonged QTc interval occurred with the maximum mean (upper bound of the 2-sided 90% CI) at steady state of 11.8 msec at 40 mg and 16.2 msec at 100 mg. No subject had an absolute QTcF greater than 480 msec or a change in QTcF greater than 90 msec. Patients with risk factors for QT prolongation, such as patients taking QT prolonging drugs, may be more at risk. Monitor heart rate in all patients periodically during treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      AV block
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    hypertension, hypertensive crisis
    General Information
    During the active comparator-controlled clinical trial, hypertension was reported in 10.1% of ponesimod-treated patients and 9% of teriflunomide-treated patients. Ponesimod-treated patients had an average increase of 2.9 mmHg in systolic blood pressure (SBP) and 2.8 mmHg in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) compared to 2.8 mmHg and 3.1 mmHg in teriflunomide-treated patients, respectively. The increase in blood pressure was first detected after approximately 1 month of treatment and persisted throughout treatment. In trials, hypertensive events included the following terms: hypertension, hypertensive crisis, blood pressure increased, SBP increased, and DBP increased. One patient treated with ponesimod experienced a hypertensive crisis that was not clearly influenced by the use of ponesimod, as the patient had longstanding hypertensive heart disease. Blood pressure should be monitored during treatment with and managed appropriately.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertensive crisis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cystitis, infection, lymphopenia, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Ponesimod causes a dose-dependent reduction in peripheral lymphocyte count to 30% to 40% of baseline values because of reversible sequestration of lymphocytes in lymphoid tissues. The proportion of patients who experienced lymphocyte counts less than 0.2 x 109/L was 3.2%. Peripheral lymphocyte counts generally returned to the normal range in 90% of patients within 1 week of ponesimod discontinuation in modeling studies, and lymphopenia resolution occurred within 2 weeks of ponesimod discontinuation. The effect of ponesimod on lymphocytes increases the risk for infection; life-threatening and rare fatal infections have been reported in association with other sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulators. In a randomized, active comparator-controlled trial, upper respiratory infection occurred in 37% of ponesimod-treated patients (n = 565) compared to 34% of teriflunomide treated patients (n = 566). Urinary tract infections (cystitis) were reported in 6% of ponesimod-treated patients and 5% of teriflunomide-treated patients. Unspecified viral infection and lymphopenia occurred in less than 2% of ponesimod-treated patients. The overall rate of infections and rate of serious infections in patients treated with ponesimod was similar to that in patients who received teriflunomide (54.2% vs. 52.1% and 1.6% vs. 0.9%, respectively). In a 6-month placebo-controlled study, rhinitis and sinusitis occurred in at least 2% of ponesimod-treated patients and at a higher rate than in placebo-treated patients. Pneumonia was observed in uncontrolled extension trials. During the active comparator-controlled trial, herpetic infections were reported in 4.8% of ponesimod-treated patients and patients treated with teriflunomide. Herpes simplex encephalitis and varicella zoster meningitis have been reported with other sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulators. Cases of fatal cryptococcal meningitis and disseminated cryptococcal infections have been reported with other sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulators. Patients with symptoms or signs consistent with a cryptococcal infection should undergo prompt diagnostic evaluation and treatment; discontinue treatment until cryptococcal infection is ruled out. If a patient develops a serious infection, consider ponesimod discontinuation; reassess the benefits and risks before reinitiation of treatment. Ponesimod may persist in the body for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation, so continue to monitor patients for infection.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    encephalopathy, immune reconstitution syndrome, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
    General Information
    Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) may occur with ponesimod. PML has not been observed in ponesimod-treated patients; however, PML has been reported with fingolimod, another sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulator, and other multiple sclerosis therapies. PML can be fatal, instruct patients to notify their health care provider immediately if they notice new or worsening neurological signs or symptoms such as ataxia, visual changes, or confusion. Similarly, suspect PML in any patient presenting with neurological symptoms; discontinue ponesimod at the first sign or symptom of PML and perform a clinical evaluation. Consider MRI monitoring for signs that may be consistent with PML. MRI findings suggestive of PML and detection of JC virus (JCV) DNA in the CSF in the absence of clinical signs and symptoms of PML have been reported in patients treated with other multiple sclerosis medications; many cases progressed to symptomatic PML. Promptly investigate any suspicious findings to allow for early diagnosis. Longer treatment duration with S1P receptor modulators increases the risk of PML. Most cases of PML occurred in patients treated with S1P receptor modulators for at least 18 months. Cases of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) or immune reconstitution syndrome have been reported in patients treated with other S1P receptor modulators who developed PML and subsequently discontinued treatment. PML-associated IRIS may lead to rapid onset of serious neurological complications or death, and is often associated with characteristic changes on MRI. PML-associated IRIS onset occurred within a few months following S1P receptor modulator discontinuation. Monitor patients and appropriately treat any inflammation associated with IRIS. There have also been rare cases of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) reported in patients receiving other S1P receptor modulators. Symptoms reported included sudden onset of severe headache, altered mental status, visual disturbances, and seizure. Symptoms of PRES are usually reversible but may evolve into an ischemic stroke or cerebral hemorrhage. A delay in diagnosis and treatment may lead to permanent neurological sequelae. If PRES is suspected, discontinue ponesimod and perform a clinical evaluation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      encephalopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      immune reconstitution syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea
    General Information
    In a randomized, active comparator-controlled trial, dyspnea occurred in 5% of ponesimod-treated patients (n = 565) compared to 1% of teriflunomide treated patients (n = 566). Dose-dependent reductions in absolute forced expiratory volume over 1 second (FEV1) and diffusion lung capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) were mostly seen during the first month of treatment. A reduction in percent predicted FEV1 at 2 years was 8.3% in patients treated with ponesimod compared to 4.4% in patients treated with teriflunomide. Ponesimod was discontinued in 7 patients because of pulmonary adverse events. There is insufficient information to determine the reversibility of the decrease in FEV1 or FVC after drug discontinuation. Ponesimod is not recommended for use in patients with severe untreated sleep apnea. Spirometric evaluation of respiratory function should be performed during therapy with ponesimod if clinically indicated. In the same active comparator-controlled trial, cough was reported in 4% of ponesimod-treated patients and 2% of teriflunomide-treated patients. Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they experience new or worsening dyspnea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, jaundice
    General Information
    In a randomized, active comparator-controlled trial, elevated hepatic enzymes occurred in 23% of ponesimod-treated patients (n = 565) compared to 12% of teriflunomide-treated patients (n = 566). Elevations of ALT up to 5-fold the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 4.6% of ponesimod-treated patients compared to 2.5% of teriflunomide-treated patients. Elevation of ALT to 3-fold the ULN or more occurred in 17.3% of patients treated with ponesimod and 8.3% of patients treated with teriflunomide. The median time to hepatic enzyme elevation (3 times the ULN) was 3 months. The majority of patients (89%) continued treatment, with values returning to less than 3 times the ULN in approximately 2 to 4 weeks. Overall, the discontinuation rate due to elevated hepatic enzymes was 2.3% of patients treated with ponesimod and 1.9% of patients treated with teriflunomide. Patients who develop symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction, such as unexplained nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, unexplained tiredness, anorexia, rash with eosinophilia, or jaundice and/or dark urine during treatment, should have hepatic enzymes checked. The drug should be discontinued if significant liver injury is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    depression, dizziness, drowsiness, insomnia, migraine, seizures, vertigo
    General Information
    In a randomized, active comparator-controlled trial, dizziness occurred in 5% of ponesimod-treated patients (n = 565) compared to 3% of teriflunomide-treated patients (n = 566). Drowsiness (somnolence) and vertigo each occurred in 3% and 2% of ponesimod-treated patients and 2% and 1% of teriflunomide-treated patients, respectively. Seizures were reported in 1.4% of ponesimod-treated patients compared to 0.2% of teriflunomide-treated patients. It is not known whether the seizure events were related to the effects of multiple sclerosis, to ponesimod, or to a combination of both. In a 6-month placebo-controlled study, depression, insomnia, and migraine occurred in at least 2% of ponesimod-treated patients and at a higher rate than in placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    macular edema, visual impairment
    General Information
    Sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulators, including ponesimod, have been associated with an increased risk of macular edema. In a randomized, active comparator-controlled trial, macular edema occurred in 1.1% of ponesimod-treated patients (n = 565) compared to 0% of teriflunomide-treated patients (n = 566). Obtain an ophthalmologic evaluation of the fundus, including the macula, near the start of treatment in all patients, periodically during treatment, and at any time a patient reports visual impairment or disturbance while on ponesimod therapy. Continuation of ponesimod in patients with macular edema has not been evaluated. Consider discontinuation of ponesimod therapy if macular edema develops, with decisions based on the benefits and risks of continued treatment to the patient. The risk of recurrence after a rechallenge is unknown. Macular edema may lead to permanent visual loss over an extended period of time (e.g., 6 months).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      macular edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dyspepsia, xerostomia
    General Information
    In a 6-month placebo-controlled study, dyspepsia and xerostomia occurred in at least 2% of ponesimod-treated patients and at a higher rate than in placebo-treated patients; these events did not meet the reporting rate criteria for inclusion in the comparator drug study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    fatigue, fever, hypercholesterolemia, hyperkalemia
    General Information
    In a randomized, active comparator-controlled trial, hypercholesterolemia was reported in 2% of ponesimod-treated patients (n = 565) compared to 1% of teriflunomide-treated patients (n = 566). Increased C-reactive protein and pyrexia (raised body temperature or fever) each occurred in 2% of ponesimod-treated patients and 1% of teriflunomide-treated patients. Fever can be indicative of infection in some patients and may require further evaluation. Hyperkalemia was reported in less than 2% of ponesimod-treated patients. In a 6-month placebo-controlled study, fatigue and increased blood cholesterol occurred in at least 2% of ponesimod-treated patients and at a higher rate than in placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    back pain, peripheral edema
    General Information
    In a randomized, active comparator-controlled trial, extremity pain occurred in 4% of ponesimod-treated patients (n = 565) compared to 3% of teriflunomide-treated patients (n = 566). In a 6-month placebo-controlled study, back pain, joint swelling, and peripheral edema occurred in at least 2% of ponesimod-treated patients and at a higher rate than in placebo-treated patients; however, these side effects did not meet the reporting rate criteria for inclusion in the active comparator trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    Merkel cell carcinoma, new primary malignancy, skin cancer
    General Information
    Ponesimod receipt may increase the risk for a new primary malignancy. In a randomized, active comparator-controlled trial, basal cell carcinoma (BCC) occurred in 0.4% of ponesimod-treated patients (n = 565) compared to 0.2% of teriflunomide-treated patients (n = 566). Cases of other cutaneous malignancies, including melanoma and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), have been observed in patients treated with ponesimod and with other sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor (S1P) modulators. One case of malignant melanoma was reported in a patient treated with ponesimod. Kaposi's sarcoma and Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported during postmarking experience with S1P receptor modulators. Perform a baseline skin examination before or shortly after ponesimod initiation and periodically during treatment for all patients, particularly for those with risk factors for skin cancer. Providers and patients are advised to monitor for suspicious skin lesions and promptly evaluate any lesion that occurs. Patients are advised to follow skin protection practices, such as using protective clothing and appropriate sunscreens.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      skin cancer
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Merkel cell carcinoma
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    multiple sclerosis exacerbation
    General Information
    Monitor patients for severe multiple sclerosis exacerbation after ponesimod discontinuation. Patients should be observed for a severe increase in disability upon ponesimod discontinuation and appropriate treatment should be instituted, as required. Rare cases of severely increased disability with multiple new lesions on MRI have been observed after discontinuation of another sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator, fingolimod. Cases typically present within 12 weeks, although cases up to 24 weeks after treatment have been reported. Most patients did not return to the functional status they had before fingolimod discontinuation, and permanent disease worsening occurred in some cases. Over 8 years, 35 cases of severe increases in disability with new MRI lesions occurred. Following drug discontinuation, disability began in less than 12 weeks in 29 cases, and between 12 to 24 weeks in 6 cases. Time on fingolimod before discontinuation ranged from 7 to 96 months. The disability was more severe than typical multiple sclerosis relapses, as several patients who were able to walk without assistance while taking fingolimod progressed to needing wheelchairs or became bedbound. Eight patients experienced permanent disability, 17 patients had a partial recovery, and 6 patients had a full recovery (reported as either a return in Expanded Disability Status Scale score reported while on fingolimod or complete recovery as recognized by clinical judgment). Advise patients of the potential risk of an exacerbation of their multiple sclerosis when ponesimod is discontinued, and to seek immediate medical attention if they experience new or worsened symptoms of multiple sclerosis. If an increase in disability occurs, test for new or enhancing lesions on MRI and begin appropriate treatment if clinically indicated. Optimal methods for the treatment of severe disability have not been defined; however, all 35 patients received corticosteroids as the initial treatment. Of those who fully recovered, 3 received only IV methylprednisolone, and the other 3 received plasma exchange, intrathecal triamcinolone, or re-started fingolimod.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      multiple sclerosis exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Ponesimod is an oral sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS) in adults, to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease. Oral sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulators reduce the frequency of clinical exacerbations and delay the accumulation of physical disability. The efficacy of ponesimod for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS was demonstrated in a randomized, double-blind, active comparator trial, in which ponesimod was compared to teriflunomide. Ponesimod significantly reduced annualized relapse rates compared to teriflunomide (relative reduction of 30.5%, p = 0.0003). Ponesimod decreased the proportion of patients with 3-month confirmed disability progression, defined as a 1.5-point increase in the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score in patients with a baseline EDSS score of 0, a 1-point increase in the EDSS score for patients with a baseline score of 1 to 5, or a 0.5-point increase in the EDSS score for patients with a baseline score of at least 5.5 (10.8% ponesimod vs. 13.2% teriflunomide), although the difference between treatment arms was not statistically significant. Patients with certain cardiac conditions should not receive this drug. Ponesimod was FDA-approved in March 2021.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ponesimod is a sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulator that binds with high affinity to the S1P receptor 1. Ponesimod blocks the capacity of lymphocytes to egress from lymph nodes, reducing the number of lymphocytes in peripheral blood. The mechanism by which ponesimod exerts therapeutic effects in multiple sclerosis is unknown but may involve the reduction of lymphocyte migration into the central nervous system.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Increases in the Cmax and AUC of oral ponesimod are approximately dose-proportional in the studied dose range of 1 to 75 mg. The time Tmax is 2 to 4 hours post-dose. The absolute oral bioavailability of a 10 mg oral dose is 84%. Steady state concentrations are achieved following 3 days of administration of the maintenance dose, and are approximately 2- to 2.6-fold greater compared to a single dose.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No change in ponesimod Cmax was observed in adult subjects with mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A, B and C, respectively). Ponesimod AUC increased by 1.3-, 2-, and 3.1-fold in subjects with mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment, respectively, compared to healthy subjects.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No significant changes in ponesimod Cmax and AUC occurred in adult subjects with moderate or severe renal impairment (estimated CrCl 30 to 59 mL/minute for moderate and less than 30 mL/minute for severe) compared to subjects with normal renal function (CrCl more than 90 mL/minute). The effect of dialysis on the pharmacokinetics of ponesimod has not been studied. Dialysis is not expected to alter the total and unbound ponesimod concentrations because of high plasma protein binding (greater than 99%).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of ponesimod were not significantly affected by age (17 to 65 years). The effect of age in people 65 years and older on the pharmacokinetics of ponesimod is unknown.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not affect the pharmacokinetics of ponesimod.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    There were no differences in the pharmacokinetics of ponesimod between Japanese and Caucasian subjects.
  Text
  Ponesimod is administered orally. Steady state Vd of ponesimod is 160 L following IV administration in healthy subjects. Plasma protein binding is greater than 99%, with the majority distributed in plasma (78.5%). Animal studies show that ponesimod readily crosses the blood brain barrier. Ponesimod is extensively metabolized to 2 inactive metabolites, M12 and M13, that are approximately 20% and 6% of total drug-related exposure, respectively. Unchanged ponesimod also remains in plasma. Metabolism of ponesimod to M13 occurs primarily through a combination of non-CYP450 enzymatic activities. The oxidation of ponesimod to M12 is catalyzed by multiple CYP450 enzymes (CYP2J2, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, CYP4F3A, and CYP4F12) and non-CYP450 enzymes. Ponesimod also undergoes direct glucuronidation (mainly UGT1A1 and UGT2B7). The total clearance of ponesimod is 3.8 L/hour following a single IV dose. Following a single oral administration of radiolabeled ponesimod, 57% to 80% of the dose was recovered in feces (16% as unchanged ponesimod), and 10% to 18% in urine (no unchanged ponesimod). The half-life of oral ponesimod is approximately 33 hours. The pharmacokinetics of ponesimod are similar in healthy subjects and people with multiple sclerosis, with 25% inter-subject variability across studies.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2J2, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, CYP4F3A, CYP4F12, UGT1A1, UGT2B7
Ponesimod is metabolized by multiple enzymes to form its circulating inactive metabolites (M12 and M13), without major contribution by any single enzyme. Ponesimod is metabolized by CYP2J2, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, CYP4F3A, CYP4F12 and non-CYP450 enzymes to form M12. Ponesimod is metabolized to M13 through non-CYP450 enzyme activity. Ponesimod undergoes direct glucuronidation, primarily by UGT1A1 and UGT2B7. Ponesimod is not a substrate of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, or OATP1B3 transporters.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Ponesimod tablets should be swallowed whole.
May be administered with or without food.
Missed dose: If fewer than 4 consecutive doses are missed during titration, resume treatment with the first missed titration dose and resume the titration schedule at that dose and titration day. If fewer than 4 consecutive maintenance doses are missed, resume treatment with the maintenance dosage. If 4 or more consecutive doses are missed during titration or maintenance, reinitiate treatment with day 1 of the titration regimen.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A): No dosage adjustments are needed.
Moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B or C): Use is not recommended.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are recommended in people with renal impairment.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
No dosage adjustments are anticipated because dialysis is not expected to alter total and unbound ponesimod concentrations.
