=== Vortioxetine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3824)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Vortioxetine is a pharmacologically distinct oral antidepressant and is sometimes called a serotonin modulator and stimulator.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): pancreatitis, weight gain, abnormal dreams, dizziness, dysgeusia, vertigo, depression, mania, suicidal ideation, ejaculation dysfunction, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, orgasm dysfunction, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash, urticaria, bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, gi bleeding, hematoma, petechiae, platelet dysfunction, headache, hyponatremia, seizures, siadh

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Monitor all patients receiving antidepressants closely for clinical worsening, suicidal ideation, and unusual changes in mood or behavior, especially during the first few months of...

Brand Names
  - BRINTELLIX
  - Trintellix

Dosage Forms
  - Trintellix 10mg Tablet
  - Trintellix 20mg Tablet
  - Trintellix 20mg Tablet
  - Trintellix 5mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 mg PO once daily, initially, then increase the dose to 20 mg PO once daily depending on tolerability. May reduce dose to 5 mg/day for persons who do not tolerate higher doses. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Some data indicate that vortioxetine maintenance treatment may result in a longer time to recurrence of a major depressive episode in initial responders taking doses of 5 to 20 mg/day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of major depression

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    adolescents, children, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Monitor all patients receiving antidepressants closely for clinical worsening, suicidal ideation, and unusual changes in mood or behavior, especially during the first few months of therapy and after any dosage adjustment. Instruct caregivers and patients to immediately notify the prescriber of changes in behavior or suicidal ideation. Consider changing the therapeutic regimen or discontinuing the medication in patients with persistent or worrisome symptoms, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials of antidepressants (n = 4,500 pediatrics and 77,000 adults), there was an increased risk for suicidal thoughts and behaviors in patients 24 years of age and younger receiving an antidepressant versus placebo, with considerable variation in the risk of suicidality among drugs. The difference in absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across different indications was highest in those with major depression. No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. Nevertheless, the need for an antidepressant in children, adolescents, or young adults for any use must be weighed against the risk of suicidality; it is unknown if this risk extends to long-term use. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression, a known risk factor for suicidal thoughts and behaviors.
    Headline
    bipolar disorder
    General Information
    Activation of mania, hypomania, or a mixed episode may occur with medications used to treat depression, especially in people predisposed to bipolar disorder. A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. Prior to initiating treatment with vortioxetine, people with depressive symptoms should be screened for risk factors for bipolar disorder, including a detailed personal psychiatric history and family history of bipolar disorder, suicide, and/or depression. If an individual taking vortioxetine develops symptoms consistent with mania or hypomania, the medication should be discontinued, and appropriate therapy should be initiated.
    Headline
    hypovolemia
    General Information
    Serotonergic antidepressants, including vortioxetine, are associated with significant hyponatremia resulting from the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Older adults, people taking diuretics, and those who have hypovolemia appear to be at greatest risk. Hyponatremia during vortioxetine use has resulted in serum sodium levels less than 110 mmol/L. However, the adverse effect appears reversible upon discontinuation of the medication. Symptomatic hyponatremia may require discontinuation of vortioxetine, as well as implementation of the appropriate medical interventions.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma, narrow iridocorneal angles
    General Information
    Caution is recommended when prescribing vortioxetine to people with closed-angle glaucoma. The pupillary dilation that can occur with antidepressants may precipitate a closed-angle glaucoma attack in those with anatomically narrow iridocorneal angles who do not have a patent iridectomy.
    Headline
    CYP2D6 poor metabolizer
    General Information
    Dosage reductions are recommended when using vortioxetine in a person that is a CYP2D6 poor metabolizer. These individuals have higher vortioxetine plasma concentrations when compared with extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are limited human data on vortioxetine use during human pregnancy to inform any drug-associated risks. Consider the risks of untreated depression when discontinuing or changing treatment with antidepressant medication during pregnancy. There are risks to the pregnant person associated with untreated depression (e.g., relapse). Data from observational studies have reported that exposure to SSRIs or SNRIs (serotonergic antidepressants), particularly in the month before obstetric delivery, has been associated with a less than 2-fold increase in the risk of postpartum hemorrhage. Vortioxetine is a serotonergic antidepressant that may also increase the risk for postpartum hemorrhage. During animal studies, vortioxetine administration to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses more than 15 and 10 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively, resulted in decreased fetal body weight and delayed ossification. No malformations were seen at doses up to 77 and 58 times the MRHD, respectively. Vortioxetine administered to pregnant rats during gestation and lactation at oral doses 20 to 58 times the MRHD resulted in a decrease in the number of live-born pups and an increase in early postnatal pup mortality. In addition, pup weights were decreased at birth to weaning at 58 times the MRHD and eye opening was slightly delayed at both 20 and 58 times the MRHD. These effects were not seen at 5 times the MRHD. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to vortioxetine; information about the registry can be obtained at womensmentalhealth.org/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants or by calling 1-844-405-6185.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    During the premarketing evaluation of vortioxetine, no overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between geriatric and younger adults. Geriatric patients are at increased risk for hyponatremia, an adverse effect which has occurred in association with the use of serotonergic antidepressants. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates antidepressant use in long-term care facilities. When used to manage behavior, stabilize mood, or treat a psychiatric disorder, tapering as outlined in the OBRA guidelines should be attempted unless clinically contraindicated. Dosages and durations of treatment used should align with prescribing labels, published literature recommendations, and expert guidelines.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero during the third trimester may experience poor neonatal adaptation, resulting in complications such as prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding upon delivery. Symptoms of poor neonatal adaptation include respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature instability, feeding difficulty, vomiting, hypoglycemia, hypotonia, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, tremor, jitteriness, irritability, and constant crying. These features are consistent with direct serotonergic toxicity, serotonin syndrome, and/or drug discontinuation syndrome. In addition, fetal exposure to serotonergic drugs (SSRIs) during late pregnancy has been associated with an increased risk of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN). Because PPHN is associated with significant morbidity and mortality, it is important that care teams are aware of exposure to serotonergic antidepressants to avoid delays in diagnosis and treatment. In a meta-analysis of 7 studies, there was a small but significant association between SSRI exposure in late pregnancy and PPHN; effects were not significant for other variables examined (e.g., study design, congenital malformations, meconium aspiration). Effects of cesarean delivery, maternal body mass index, and preterm delivery were not assessed. PPHN occurs in approximately 1.9 of 1,000 live births in the general population and is a relatively uncommon event. Based on this analysis, it is estimated that an average of 1 associated case of PPHN would result from 286 to 351 pregnant people being treated with a SSRI during late gestation.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use vortioxetine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of vortioxetine in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for vortioxetine, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition. Vortioxetine is present in animal milk. Alternatives may be considered. A pooled analysis found that maternal use of sertraline, nortriptyline, and paroxetine usually produced undetectable or low drug concentrations in infant serum and, therefore, may be the preferred antidepressants in breast-feeding individuals.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are limited human data on vortioxetine use during human pregnancy to inform any drug-associated risks. Consider the risks of untreated depression when discontinuing or changing treatment with antidepressant medication during pregnancy. There are risks to the pregnant person associated with untreated depression (e.g., relapse). Data from observational studies have reported that exposure to SSRIs or SNRIs (serotonergic antidepressants), particularly in the month before obstetric delivery, has been associated with a less than 2-fold increase in the risk of postpartum hemorrhage. Vortioxetine is a serotonergic antidepressant that may also increase the risk for postpartum hemorrhage. During animal studies, vortioxetine administration to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses more than 15 and 10 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively, resulted in decreased fetal body weight and delayed ossification. No malformations were seen at doses up to 77 and 58 times the MRHD, respectively. Vortioxetine administered to pregnant rats during gestation and lactation at oral doses 20 to 58 times the MRHD resulted in a decrease in the number of live-born pups and an increase in early postnatal pup mortality. In addition, pup weights were decreased at birth to weaning at 58 times the MRHD and eye opening was slightly delayed at both 20 and 58 times the MRHD. These effects were not seen at 5 times the MRHD. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to vortioxetine; information about the registry can be obtained at womensmentalhealth.org/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants or by calling 1-844-405-6185.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use vortioxetine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of vortioxetine in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for vortioxetine, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition. Vortioxetine is present in animal milk. Alternatives may be considered. A pooled analysis found that maternal use of sertraline, nortriptyline, and paroxetine usually produced undetectable or low drug concentrations in infant serum and, therefore, may be the preferred antidepressants in breast-feeding individuals.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dihydrocodeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with vortioxene. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering alfentanil with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Almotriptan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with vortioxetine and instructed to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Amobarbital: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vortioxetine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vortioxetine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Amphetamines: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vortioxetine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Anticoagulants: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Apalutamide: (Major) Consider increasing the dose of vortioxetine (maximum, 3 times the original dose) if coadministration with apalutamide for longer than 14 days is necessary. Vortioxetine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Apixaban: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Argatroban: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concurrent use of lumefantrine and vortioxetine may result in increased plasma concentrations of vortioxetine due to CYP2D6 inhibition by artemether; lumefantrine. Because the primary isoenzyme involved in the metabolim of vortioxetine is CYP2D6, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half during co-administration with strong inhibitors of CYP2D6. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Barbiturates: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Treatment initiation with vortioxetine is contraindicated in patients currently receiving intravenous methylene blue due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. If urgent psychiatric treatment is required, interventions other than vortioxetine (e.g., alternative medication, hospitalization) should be considered. Conversely, in patients receiving vortioxetine and requiring urgent treatment with intravenous methylene blue, vortioxetine should be discontinued immediately and methylene blue therapy initiated only if acceptable alternatives are not available and the potential benefits of methylene blue outweigh the risks. The patient should be monitored for serotonin syndrome for 21 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. Vortioxetine may be re-initiated 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue. Results from an in vitro study indicate that methylene blue is a potent, reversible inhibitor of the monoamine oxidase type A enzyme (MAO-A). MAO-A is responsible for the metabolism of serotonin; therefore, concurrent use of an MAO-A inhibitor with a serotonergic agent may result in a clinically significant interaction. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving SSRIs, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. One case describes a patient receiving citalopram who experienced agitation, restlessness, pupil dilation with sluggish response to light, myoclonic movements of the lower limbs, and brisk reflexes following an infusion of methylene blue, while another patient receiving paroxetine developed tachycardia, agitation, dystonia and abnormal eye movements During a retrospective study of 193 surgical patients who had received a methylene blue injection, it was found that all 12 of the patients who experienced postoperative neurological sequelae had been taking a serotonin reuptake inhibitor preoperatively. One of the 12 patients experienced cardiopulmonary arrest and died. Of the remaining 181 patients who did not experience neurological sequelae, 8.8% were taking a serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and coma. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include fever, diaphoresis, shivering, myoclonus, tremor, tachycardia, diarrhea, nausea, headache, incoordination, mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), and hyperreflexia. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vortioxetine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering buprenorphine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering buprenorphine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
buPROPion: (Major) The primary isoenzyme involved in the metabolim of vortioxetine is CYP2D6; therefore, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half during co-administration with strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as bupropion. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) The primary isoenzyme involved in the metabolim of vortioxetine is CYP2D6; therefore, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half during co-administration with strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as bupropion. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as buspirone. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days. (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days. (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering butorphanol with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. Therefore, the manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer, such as carbamazepine, is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with vortioxene. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Citalopram: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be co-administered with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Cocaine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as cocaine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Dacomitinib: (Major) Reduce the vortioxetine dose by one-half during coadministration with dacomitinib. Increase the dose back to the original level when dacomitinib is discontinued. Coadministration may increase vortioxetine serum concentrations. Vortioxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Desipramine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Desvenlafaxine: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be administered with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as venlafaxine, desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, and milnacipran. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylphenidate derivatives and vortioxetine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Patients receiving methylphenidate derivatives with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vortioxetine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) The primary isoenzyme involved in the metabolim of vortioxetine is CYP2D6; therefore, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half during co-administration with strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as bupropion. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued. (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) The primary isoenzyme involved in the metabolim of vortioxetine is CYP2D6; therefore, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half during co-administration with strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as quinidine. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued. (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Dihydroergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and vortioxetine. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Diuretics: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Doxepin: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
DULoxetine: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be administered with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as venlafaxine, desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, and milnacipran. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Edoxaban: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Eletriptan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Encorafenib: (Major) Consider increasing the dose of vortioxetine (maximum, 3 times the original dose) if coadministration with encorafenib for longer than 14 days is necessary. Reduce the dose of vortioxetine to the original level within 14 days when encorafenib is discontinued. Vortioxetine is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer significantly reduced the exposure of vortioxetine.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Consider increasing the dose of vortioxetine (maximum, 3 times the original dose) if coadministration with enzalutamide for longer than 14 days is necessary. Vortioxetine is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Ergoloid Mesylates: (Minor) Monitor for symptoms of serotonergic toxicity during concomitant use of ergoloid mesylates (co-dergocrine mesylate) and vortioxetine. Serotonin receptor agonist and antagonist activity has been observed with ergoloid mesylates. Concomitant use may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome in some patients.
Ergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and vortioxetine. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and vortioxetine. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Escitalopram: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be co-administered with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and vortioxetine with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome, caution should be observed when administering fentanyl with vortioxetine. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be co-administered with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Monitor for serotonin syndrome during the transition from vortioxetine to an SSRI. If co-administration is necessary, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half during when strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as fluoxetine are used since CYP2D6 is the primary isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of vortioxetine to its inactive metabolite. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be co-administered with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. Therefore, the manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer, such as phenytoin or fosphenytoin, is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Frovatriptan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and vortioxetine is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering granisetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as vortioxetine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue granisetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
Heparin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with vortioxene. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with vortioxene. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with vortioxene. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydromorphone with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Contraindicated) Treatment initiation with vortioxetine is contraindicated in patients currently receiving intravenous methylene blue due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. If urgent psychiatric treatment is required, interventions other than vortioxetine (e.g., alternative medication, hospitalization) should be considered. Conversely, in patients receiving vortioxetine and requiring urgent treatment with intravenous methylene blue, vortioxetine should be discontinued immediately and methylene blue therapy initiated only if acceptable alternatives are not available and the potential benefits of methylene blue outweigh the risks. The patient should be monitored for serotonin syndrome for 21 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. Vortioxetine may be re-initiated 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue. Results from an in vitro study indicate that methylene blue is a potent, reversible inhibitor of the monoamine oxidase type A enzyme (MAO-A). MAO-A is responsible for the metabolism of serotonin; therefore, concurrent use of an MAO-A inhibitor with a serotonergic agent may result in a clinically significant interaction. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving SSRIs, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. One case describes a patient receiving citalopram who experienced agitation, restlessness, pupil dilation with sluggish response to light, myoclonic movements of the lower limbs, and brisk reflexes following an infusion of methylene blue, while another patient receiving paroxetine developed tachycardia, agitation, dystonia and abnormal eye movements During a retrospective study of 193 surgical patients who had received a methylene blue injection, it was found that all 12 of the patients who experienced postoperative neurological sequelae had been taking a serotonin reuptake inhibitor preoperatively. One of the 12 patients experienced cardiopulmonary arrest and died. Of the remaining 181 patients who did not experience neurological sequelae, 8.8% were taking a serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and coma. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include fever, diaphoresis, shivering, myoclonus, tremor, tachycardia, diarrhea, nausea, headache, incoordination, mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), and hyperreflexia. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Imipramine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat psychiatric disorders are contraindicated for use with vortioxetine or within 21 days of discontinuing treatment with vortioxetine. Conversely, vortioxetine should not be initiated within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. Monitor patients for serotonin-related side effects during therapy transitions.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of vortioxetine and medications with MAO-like activity, such as isoniazid, INH, should be avoided if possible. Isoniazid is chemically related to iproniazid, a drug that was known to possess MAO inhibiting activity. Although isoniazid does not inhibit mitochondrial MAO, it does appear to inhibit plasma MAO and may possess enough MAO inhibiting activity to produce clinical symptoms consistent with serotonergic excess when combined with vortioxetine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving isoniazid in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levomilnacipran: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be administered with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as venlafaxine, desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, and milnacipran. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levorphanol with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Linezolid: (Contraindicated) Treatment initiation with vortioxetine is contraindicated in patients currently receiving linezolid due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. If urgent psychiatric treatment is required, interventions other than vortioxetine (e.g., alternative medication, hospitalization) should be considered. Conversely, in patients receiving vortioxetine and requiring urgent treatment with linezolid, vortioxetine should be discontinued immediately and linezolid therapy initiated only if acceptable alternatives are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid outweigh the risks. The patient should be monitored for serotonin syndrome for 21 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid, whichever comes first. Vortioxetine may be re-initiated 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a non-selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor. Since monoamine oxidase type A deaminates serotonin, administration of a non-selective MAO inhibitor concurrently with vortioxetine can lead to serious reactions including serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vortioxetine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Lithium: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as lithium. Lithium has been reported to increase 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolites in the cerebrospinal fluid and may interact pharmacodynamically with vortioxetine resulting in serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving lithium in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects suggestive of serotonin excess, such as serotonin syndrome and hyponatremia, during concomitant use of a serotonin reuptake inhibitor, such as vortioxetine, and lumateperone. Both medications affect the serotonin transporter and concomitant use may increase the risk for adverse effects.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Reduce the vortioxetine dose by one-half during coadministration with mavorixafor. Increase the dose back to the original level when mavorixafor is discontinued. Coadministration may increase vortioxetine serum concentrations. Vortioxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate; mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the AUC of vortioxetine by at least 2-fold.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering meperidine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Methadone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering methadone with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vortioxetine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Contraindicated) Treatment initiation with vortioxetine is contraindicated in patients currently receiving intravenous methylene blue due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. If urgent psychiatric treatment is required, interventions other than vortioxetine (e.g., alternative medication, hospitalization) should be considered. Conversely, in patients receiving vortioxetine and requiring urgent treatment with intravenous methylene blue, vortioxetine should be discontinued immediately and methylene blue therapy initiated only if acceptable alternatives are not available and the potential benefits of methylene blue outweigh the risks. The patient should be monitored for serotonin syndrome for 21 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. Vortioxetine may be re-initiated 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue. Results from an in vitro study indicate that methylene blue is a potent, reversible inhibitor of the monoamine oxidase type A enzyme (MAO-A). MAO-A is responsible for the metabolism of serotonin; therefore, concurrent use of an MAO-A inhibitor with a serotonergic agent may result in a clinically significant interaction. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving SSRIs, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. One case describes a patient receiving citalopram who experienced agitation, restlessness, pupil dilation with sluggish response to light, myoclonic movements of the lower limbs, and brisk reflexes following an infusion of methylene blue, while another patient receiving paroxetine developed tachycardia, agitation, dystonia and abnormal eye movements During a retrospective study of 193 surgical patients who had received a methylene blue injection, it was found that all 12 of the patients who experienced postoperative neurological sequelae had been taking a serotonin reuptake inhibitor preoperatively. One of the 12 patients experienced cardiopulmonary arrest and died. Of the remaining 181 patients who did not experience neurological sequelae, 8.8% were taking a serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and coma. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include fever, diaphoresis, shivering, myoclonus, tremor, tachycardia, diarrhea, nausea, headache, incoordination, mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), and hyperreflexia.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Methohexital: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Methylene Blue: (Contraindicated) Treatment initiation with vortioxetine is contraindicated in patients currently receiving intravenous methylene blue due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. If urgent psychiatric treatment is required, interventions other than vortioxetine (e.g., alternative medication, hospitalization) should be considered. Conversely, in patients receiving vortioxetine and requiring urgent treatment with intravenous methylene blue, vortioxetine should be discontinued immediately and methylene blue therapy initiated only if acceptable alternatives are not available and the potential benefits of methylene blue outweigh the risks. The patient should be monitored for serotonin syndrome for 21 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. Vortioxetine may be re-initiated 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue. Results from an in vitro study indicate that methylene blue is a potent, reversible inhibitor of the monoamine oxidase type A enzyme (MAO-A). MAO-A is responsible for the metabolism of serotonin; therefore, concurrent use of an MAO-A inhibitor with a serotonergic agent may result in a clinically significant interaction. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving SSRIs, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. One case describes a patient receiving citalopram who experienced agitation, restlessness, pupil dilation with sluggish response to light, myoclonic movements of the lower limbs, and brisk reflexes following an infusion of methylene blue, while another patient receiving paroxetine developed tachycardia, agitation, dystonia and abnormal eye movements During a retrospective study of 193 surgical patients who had received a methylene blue injection, it was found that all 12 of the patients who experienced postoperative neurological sequelae had been taking a serotonin reuptake inhibitor preoperatively. One of the 12 patients experienced cardiopulmonary arrest and died. Of the remaining 181 patients who did not experience neurological sequelae, 8.8% were taking a serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and coma. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include fever, diaphoresis, shivering, myoclonus, tremor, tachycardia, diarrhea, nausea, headache, incoordination, mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), and hyperreflexia.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylphenidate derivatives and vortioxetine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Patients receiving methylphenidate derivatives with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylphenidate derivatives and vortioxetine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Patients receiving methylphenidate derivatives with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Milnacipran: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be administered with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as venlafaxine, desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, and milnacipran. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as mirtazapine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Mitotane: (Major) Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. Therefore, the manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer, such as mitotane, is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat psychiatric disorders are contraindicated for use with vortioxetine or within 21 days of discontinuing treatment with vortioxetine. Conversely, vortioxetine should not be initiated within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. Monitor patients for serotonin-related side effects during therapy transitions.
Morphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering morphine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering nalbuphine with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Naratriptan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
Nefazodone: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as nefazodone. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving nefazodone in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be co-administered with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Monitor for serotonin syndrome during the transition from vortioxetine to an SSRI. If co-administration is necessary, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half during when strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as fluoxetine are used since CYP2D6 is the primary isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of vortioxetine to its inactive metabolite. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and vortioxetine is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxymorphone with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
PARoxetine: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be co-administered with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Monitor for serotonin syndrome during a transition from vortioxetine to an SSRI. If coadministration is necessary, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half when strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as paroxetine are used since CYP2D6 is the primary isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of vortioxetine to its inactive metabolite. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as pentazocine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat psychiatric disorders are contraindicated for use with vortioxetine or within 21 days of discontinuing treatment with vortioxetine. Conversely, vortioxetine should not be initiated within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. Monitor patients for serotonin-related side effects during therapy transitions.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and vortioxetine together with caution; use together may be safe and efficacious for some patients based on available data, provided the patient is on a stable antidepressant regimen and receives close clinical monitoring. Regular appointments to assess the efficacy of the weight loss treatment, the emergence of adverse events, and blood pressure monitoring are recommended. Watch for excessive serotonergic effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome or cardiovascular or pulmonary effects when combined with serotonergic agents. One case report has been received of adverse reactions with phentermine and the antidepressant fluoxetine. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses, and that phentermine does not additionally increase plasma serotonin levels when combined with other serotonergic agents. In large controlled clinical studies, patients were allowed to start therapy with phentermine or phentermine; topiramate extended-release for obesity along with their antidepressants (e.g., SSRIs or SNRIs, but not MAOIs or TCAs) as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior to the initiation of phentermine, and the patient did not have suicidal ideation or more than 1 episode of major depression documented. In analyses of the results, therapy was generally well tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses, based on discontinuation rates and reported adverse events. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Use phentermine and vortioxetine together with caution; use together may be safe and efficacious for some patients based on available data, provided the patient is on a stable antidepressant regimen and receives close clinical monitoring. Regular appointments to assess the efficacy of the weight loss treatment, the emergence of adverse events, and blood pressure monitoring are recommended. Watch for excessive serotonergic effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome or cardiovascular or pulmonary effects when combined with serotonergic agents. One case report has been received of adverse reactions with phentermine and the antidepressant fluoxetine. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses, and that phentermine does not additionally increase plasma serotonin levels when combined with other serotonergic agents. In large controlled clinical studies, patients were allowed to start therapy with phentermine or phentermine; topiramate extended-release for obesity along with their antidepressants (e.g., SSRIs or SNRIs, but not MAOIs or TCAs) as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior to the initiation of phentermine, and the patient did not have suicidal ideation or more than 1 episode of major depression documented. In analyses of the results, therapy was generally well tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses, based on discontinuation rates and reported adverse events. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Phenytoin: (Major) Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. Therefore, the manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer, such as phenytoin or fosphenytoin, is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Primidone: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Procarbazine: (Major) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of vortioxetine and medications with MAO-like activity, such as procarbazine, should be avoided if possible. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving procarbazine in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustments. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Protriptyline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
quiNIDine: (Major) The primary isoenzyme involved in the metabolim of vortioxetine is CYP2D6; therefore, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half during co-administration with strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as quinidine. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued.
Rasagiline: (Major) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat psychiatric disorders are contraindicated for use with vortioxetine or within 21 days of discontinuing treatment with vortioxetine. Conversely, vortioxetine should not be initiated within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. The manufacturer of rasagiline does not contraindicate the combination but recommends avoiding use of antidepressants with rasagiline or within 14 days of discontinuing rasagiline. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering remifentanil with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with vortioxetine and instructed to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
rifAMPin: (Major) Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. Therefore, the manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer, such as rifampin, is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Rifapentine: (Major) Consider increasing the dose of vortioxetine (maximum, 3 times the original dose) if coadministration with rifapentine for longer than 14 days is necessary. Reduce the dose of vortioxetine to the original level within 14 days when rifapentine is discontinued. Vortioxetine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly reduced the exposure of vortioxetine.
Rivaroxaban: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Rizatriptan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if vortioxetine and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for vortioxetine-related adverse effects. Vortioxetine is a substrate of CYP2D6 and rolapitant is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 ; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant is expected to persist beyond 28 days for an unknown duration. Exposure to another CYP2D6 substrate, following a single dose of rolapitant increased about 3-fold on Days 8 and Day 22. The inhibition of CYP2D6 persisted on Day 28 with a 2.3-fold increase in the CYP2D6 substrate concentrations, the last time point measured.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of vortioxetine and safinamide, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of safinamide within 2 weeks of stopping vortioxetine is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Conversely, at least 21 days should elapse after stopping vortioxetine before initiating safinamide. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Secobarbital: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) Vortioxetine is contraindicated for use with selegiline, a selective monoamine oxidase type B inhibitor (MAO-B inhibitor). At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of selegiline and initiation of treatment with vortioxetine. After stopping treatment with vortioxetine, a time period equal to 4 to 5 half-lives of vortioxetine or any active metabolite should elapse before starting therapy with selegiline. Serotonin syndrome has occurred in patients receiving selective MAO-B inhibitors and serotonergic antidepressants simultaneously.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylphenidate derivatives and vortioxetine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Patients receiving methylphenidate derivatives with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be administered with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as venlafaxine, desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, and milnacipran. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
Sertraline: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be co-administered with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Due to the potential for additive effects on serotonin concentrations and possible CYP induction by St. John's wort, it is advisable to avoid combining St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum with vortioxetine. Interactions between vortioxetine and serotonergic agents can lead to serious reactions including serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome reactions have been documented when other serotonergic antidepressants (e.g., SSRIs) were used concurrently with St. John's wort. In addition, patients may experience a decreased response to vortioxetine when CYP inducers such as St. John's Wort are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering sufentanil with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
SUMAtriptan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tapentadol with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with vortioxetine and instructed to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Terbinafine: (Major) Reduce the vortioxetine dose by one-half during coadministration with terbinafine. Increase the dose back to the original level when terbinafine is discontinued. Coadministration may increase vortioxetine serum concentrations. Vortioxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate; terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the AUC of vortioxetine by at least 2-fold.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with vortioxetine and instructed to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Tipranavir: (Major) Concurrent use of tipranavir and vortioxetine may result in increased plasma concentrations of vortioxetine due to CYP2D6 inhibition by tipranavir. Because the primary isoenzyme involved in the metabolim of vortioxetine is CYP2D6, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half during co-administration with strong inhibitors of CYP2D6. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
traMADol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with vortioxetine. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat psychiatric disorders are contraindicated for use with vortioxetine or within 21 days of discontinuing treatment with vortioxetine. Conversely, vortioxetine should not be initiated within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. Monitor patients for serotonin-related side effects during therapy transitions.
traZODone: (Moderate) Coadministration of trazodone and vortioxetine may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome has been reported with both drugs when taken alone, but especially when coadministered with other serotonergic agents. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue vortioxetine and trazodone and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Trimipramine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving a tricyclic antidepressant in combination with vortioxetine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or other adverse effects. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Tryptophan, 5-Hydroxytryptophan: (Major) The concomitant use of tryptophan with vortioxetine should be avoided if possible. Since tryptophan is converted to serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine), the use of tryptophan in patients receiving vortioxetine could lead to serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) The German Commission E and other groups warn that any substances that act on the CNS, including psychopharmacologic agents, may interact with the phytomedicinals kava kava, Piper methysticum or valerian, Valeriana officinalis. These interactions are probably pharmacodynamic in nature, or result from additive mechanisms of action.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be administered with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as venlafaxine, desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, and milnacipran. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Vilazodone: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be administered with vilazodone. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
ZOLMitriptan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, nausea, pancreatitis, vomiting, weight gain, xerostomia
    General Information
    During short-term clinical trial evaluation of vortioxetine for major depressive disorder in adults, the following adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects were reported in at least 2% of patients receiving vortioxetine (dose range 5 to 20 mg/day PO) and at least 2% more frequently than in placebo-treated patients: nausea (21% to 32%), diarrhea (7% to 10%), xerostomia (6% to 8%), constipation (3% to 6%), vomiting (3% to 6%), and flatulence (1% to 3%). Mild to moderate nausea was the most common adverse reaction in clinical trials (females with a greater incidence than males) and was dose-related. The median duration was 2 weeks. Nausea was experienced by 15% to 20% of patients after 1 to 2 days of treatment, and about 10% of patients receiving 10 mg to 20 mg/day PO had nausea at the end of the 6 to 8 week study period. Nausea was the most common adverse reaction reported as a reason for discontinuation. Dyspepsia was also observed more frequently during treatment with vortioxetine than placebo during clinical studies, but the frequency is unknown. In short-term (6 to 8 weeks) and long-term (6 months) clinical trials, vortioxetine had no significant effect on mean body weight from baseline. Weight gain and acute pancreatitis have been reported during post-marketing use; however, incidence and causality have not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abnormal dreams, dizziness, dysgeusia, vertigo
    General Information
    During short-term clinical trial evaluation of vortioxetine for major depressive disorder in adults, the following centrally-mediated effects were reported in at least 2% of patients receiving vortioxetine (dose range 5 to 20 mg/day PO) and at least 2% more frequently than in placebo-treated patients: dizziness (6% to 9%) and abnormal dreams (3% or less). Dysgeusia and vertigo were also observed more frequently during treatment with vortioxetine than placebo during clinical studies, but the frequencies are unknown. In one study of healthy subjects, vortioxetine did not impair driving performance or result in adverse psychomotor or cognitive effects. One clinical study reported that single doses of 20 or 40 mg/day of vortioxetine did not increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by alcohol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      abnormal dreams
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression, mania, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Mania can occur in predisposed patients during treatment with an antidepressant. Mania and hypomania were reported in less than 0.1% of patients treated with vortioxetine in premarketing clinical studies. Monitor all antidepressant-treated patients for any indication for worsening of depression or the condition being treated and the emergence of suicidal behaviors or suicidal ideation, especially during the initial few months of drug therapy and after dosage changes. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials of antidepressants (n = 4,500 pediatrics and 77,000 adults), there was an increased risk for suicidal thoughts and behaviors in patients 24 years of age and younger receiving an antidepressant versus placebo, with considerable variation in the risk of suicidality among drugs. The difference in the absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across different indications was highest in those with major depression. No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. These studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior with antidepressant use in patients over 24 years of age; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressant use in patients aged 65 and older. Caregivers and/or patients should immediately notify the prescriber of changes in behavior or suicidal ideation during vortioxetine treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    ejaculation dysfunction, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, orgasm dysfunction
    General Information
    During short-term clinical trial evaluation of vortioxetine for major depressive disorder (MDD) in adult patients without sexual dysfunction as measured by the Arizona Sexual Experiences Scale (ASEX) at baseline, unspecified treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction (TESD) was reported more frequently in men (16% to 29%) and women (22% to 34%) receiving vortioxetine versus placebo. Ejaculation dysfunction (ejaculatory delay) in men is a frequently reported adverse effect during treatment with a serotonergic antidepressant. Other potential adverse effects include impotence (erectile dysfunction) in men, libido decrease, and orgasm dysfunction (reported as anorgasmia in women). The effects of vortioxetine on TESD induced by prior selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment (e.g., citalopram, sertraline, paroxetine) was evaluated in a controlled trial of adults with major depressive disorder (MDD). Improvement in TESD was superior in patients switched to vortioxetine compared with patients switched to the SSRI escitalopram, with both drugs maintaining the prior antidepressant response. In a separate controlled trial of healthy volunteers without depression, TESD with 10 mg of vortioxetine but not 20 mg of vortioxetine was statistically significantly less than with 20 mg of paroxetine, while paroxetine 20 mg was statistically significantly worse than placebo. Sexual dysfunction is frequently underreported by patients. Prescribers should discuss sexual function prior to initiating vortioxetine and throughout treatment and obtain a detailed history and timeline of any changes in sexual function to determine whether the changes are medication-related or may be attributed to the underlying psychiatric disorder. Clinicians should also discuss management strategies and treatment options with patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      orgasm dysfunction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ejaculation dysfunction
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    flushing
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of vortioxetine for major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults, vascular disorders including flushing occurred more frequently in patients receiving vortioxetine than placebo. No significant effects of vortioxetine on vital signs have been observed including systolic or diastolic blood pressure and heart rate. The effects of vortioxetine 10 mg/day and 40 mg/day on the QTc interval were compared to a placebo and active control (moxifloxacin 400 mg) in 340 male subjects. The upper 95% confidence interval for the QTc for vortioxetine was below 10 ms.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    During short-term clinical trial evaluation of vortioxetine for major depressive disorder in adults, pruritus was reported in 1% to 3% of patients receiving vortioxetine and at a higher incidence than with placebo. Anaphylactoid reactions, including anaphylaxis and angioedema, have also been reported in patients treated with vortioxetine. Rash, urticaria, and hyperhidrosis have been reported during postmarketing use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, GI bleeding, hematoma, petechiae, platelet dysfunction
    General Information
    Platelet dysfunction (i.e., impaired platelet aggregation) may occur during treatment with vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion. Bleeding events related to drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis, hematoma, epistaxis, and petechiae to life-threatening hemorrhages, including gastrointestinal bleeding (GI bleeding). Concomitant use of aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), other antiplatelet drugs, warfarin, and other anticoagulants may add to this risk. Case reports and epidemiological studies (case-control and cohort design) have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of GI bleeding.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      platelet dysfunction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      petechiae
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    serotonin syndrome
    General Information
    Serotonin syndrome can occur during the use of serotonergic antidepressants alone or during concurrent use of vortioxetine with other serotonergic agents. Symptoms may include nausea/vomiting, sedation, dizziness, diaphoresis, facial flushing, mental status changes, myoclonia, restlessness, shivering, and high blood pressure. Serotonin syndrome in its most severe form resembles neuroleptic malignant syndrome and may include symptoms such as hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, autonomic instability, and mental status changes. If serotonin syndrome becomes evident, vortioxetine and any other serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    headache, hyponatremia, seizures, SIADH
    General Information
    Seizures and headache have been reported during postmarketing use of vortioxetine. Hyponatremia has occurred as a result of treatment with serotonergic drugs, including vortioxetine. In many cases, hyponatremia appears to be the result of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). One case with serum sodium lower than 110 mmol/L was reported in a subject treated with vortioxetine in a premarketing clinical study. Elderly patients, those receiving diuretics or prone to dehydration, and those who are otherwise volume depleted (e.g., hypovolemia) appear to be at greatest risk. Hyponatremia may manifest as headache, difficulty concentrating, memory impairment, confusion, weakness, and unsteadiness which may result in falls. Severe manifestations include hallucinations, fainting, seizures, coma, respiratory arrest, and death. Symptomatic hyponatremia may require discontinuation of vortioxetine, as well as implementation of the appropriate medical interventions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      SIADH
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hyperprolactinemia
    General Information
    Hyperprolactinemia has been reported during postmarketing use of vortioxetine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperprolactinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    withdrawal
    General Information
    If withdrawal of vortioxetine is necessary, tapering is recommended when possible. Patients taking 15 to 20 mg/day should taper the dose to 10 mg/day for one week prior to full discontinuation. Discontinuation symptoms have been prospectively evaluated in patients taking vortioxetine 10 to 20 mg/day during clinical trials. Some patients experienced discontinuation symptoms such as headache, muscle tension, mood swings, sudden outbursts of anger, dizziness, and runny nose in the first week of abrupt discontinuation. Discontinuation symptoms including nausea, sweating, dysphoric mood, irritability, agitation, dizziness, sensory disturbances (e.g., paresthesias, electric shock sensations), tremor, anxiety, confusion, headache, lethargy, emotional lability, insomnia, hypomania, tinnitus, and seizures have been reported with other serotonergic antidepressants following abrupt discontinuation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    neonatal abstinence syndrome, persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn
    General Information
    The benefits versus risks of using vortioxetine or other serotonergic agent during the third trimester should be carefully considered. A neonatal abstinence syndrome has been reported after in utero exposure to serotonergic agents. After birth, symptoms consistent with withdrawal (i.e., poor feeding, hypoglycemia, hypothermia, lethargy or irritability, vomiting, etc.) have been noted. Other symptoms include respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature instability, hypotonia, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, tremor, jitteriness, jaundice, and constant crying. Serum concentrations of the serotonergic agent have been measurable in the infants affected. Several other symptoms (bloody stools, necrotizing enterocolitis) may have been attributable to rebound platelet activation on withdrawal of exposure to the drug. Such complications can arise immediately upon delivery, and may require treatment or extended hospitalization. Neonatal symptoms generally improved over several days. These features are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of serotonergic agents (e.g., serotonin syndrome), or, possibly, a drug discontinuation syndrome. In one cohort study, the incidence of prematurity in the third trimester SSRI group was significant at 20% vs. 3.7% of controls. Some data suggest a significant association between maternal use of SSRIs after 20 weeks of pregnancy and the development of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN), while other data have not shown an increased risk. In December 2011, the FDA issued a safety announcement stating that based on conflicting data, an increased risk of PPHN from SSRI exposure cannot be determined, and the current practice of treating depression in pregnancy should not be altered at this time.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal abstinence syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anosmia
    General Information
    In postmarketing experience with vortioxetine, anosmia and hyposmia have been reported. As these effects are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to medication exposure.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anosmia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    There have been reports of false positive results for methadone using urine enzyme immunoassays in patients who were receiving vortioxetine. Avoid the potential for this laboratory test interference by using an alternative analytical technique (e.g., chromatographic methods) to confirm positive methadone urine drug screen results.

Description
  Text
  Vortioxetine is a pharmacologically distinct oral antidepressant and is sometimes called a serotonin modulator and stimulator. Vortioxetine exerts its therapeutic effects through modulation of presynaptic and postsynaptic central serotonin receptor activity. Vortioxetine is used for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adults. Some data also indicate that vortioxetine maintenance treatment may result in a longer time to recurrence of a major depressive episode in initial responders taking doses of 5 to 20 mg/day. Vortioxetine has been studied in pediatric patients, but, the drug was not superior to placebo for the treatment of major depressive disorder in children and adolescents 7 to 17 years of age based on the results of 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled 8 week studies. All product labels for antidepressants contain a boxed warning related to an increased risk of suicidality in children, adolescents, and young adults during the initial stages of therapy when treating depression or other conditions; therefore, the necessity of pharmacologic therapy versus the potential risks should be carefully considered in these populations.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Vortioxetine is sometimes called a serotonin modulator and stimulator. The exact mechanism of action of vortioxetine in the treatment of depression is unknown, but is thought to occur from enhancement of central serotonergic activity secondary to potent inhibition of the serotonin transporter, a mechanism similar to the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). In addition, vortioxetine is a serotonin receptor antagonist at 5-HT3, 5-HT1D, and 5-HT7, a partial agonist at 5-HT1B, and an agonist at the 5-HT1A receptor. The contribution of these receptor activities to the overall antidepressant effect of vortioxetine has not been established. In 2 separate controlled trials, adult patients with recurrent major depressive disorder (MDD) receiving 10 to 20 mg of vortioxetine had statistically superior scores on the Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST) relative to patients receiving placebo. The DSST is a neuropsychological test that most specifically measures processing speed, an aspect of cognitive function that may be impaired in those with MDD. It is not known if the improvement in DSST scores observed in these studies represents a therapeutic advantage of vortioxetine over other antidepressants. Vortioxetine does not have a clinically relevant effect on QTc interval prolongation.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, maximum plasma concentrations are attained within 7 to 11 hours. The absolute bioavailability is 75%. The pharmacokinetics of vortioxetine are not affected by administration with food; therefore, the drug can be administered with or without meals. Steady-state plasma concentrations are achieved within 2 weeks of oral dosing.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    There is no apparent difference in the plasma protein binding between healthy subjects and subjects with mild to severe hepatic impairment. In one single dose study, the presence of mild to severe hepatic impairment did not affect the apparent clearance of vortioxetine; therefore, no dosage adjustments are required.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The presence of mild to severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease does not affect the apparent clearance of vortioxetine. Therefore, no dosage adjustments are needed in those with renal impairment.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    No data are available in pediatric patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Results from a single-dose pharmacokinetic study in geriatric subjects older than 65 years of age compared to younger adult subjects 24 to 45 years of age indicated that the pharmacokinetics were generally similar between the two groups. Therefore, dosage adjustments based upon age are not required.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No dose adjustment of vortioxetine on the basis of gender is necessary.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No dose adjustment of vortioxetine on the basis of race or ethnicity is necessary.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Poor metabolizers of CYP2D6
Poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 have about twice the vortioxetine plasma concentrations of extensive metabolizers.
  Text
  Vortioxetine is administered orally. Vortioxetine has a large volume of distribution, indicating extensive extravascular distribution. The drug is highly protein-bound (98%); however, in one clinical study with the highly protein-bound drug warfarin, no significant change in INR was observed. Oxidation is the primary metabolic route. CYP2D6 is the primary enzyme catalyzing the metabolism of vortioxetine to its major, inactive metabolite. The mean terminal half-life in normal adults is 66 hours. Approximately 59% of a dose is excreted in the urine and 26% in the feces as metabolites. Excretion of unchanged vortioxetine is negligible.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6
Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized, primarily by CYP2D6. Reduce the vortioxetine dose by half when a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor is coadministered. Isoenzymes CYP3A4/5, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2A6, CYP2C8, and CYP2B6 are also involved in vortioxetine metabolism. Based on in vitro data, vortioxetine is unlikely to inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4/5, P-gp, BCRP, BSEP, MATE1, MATE2-K, OAT1, OAT3, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, and OCT2, and does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or CYP3A4/5. In vivo studies indicate that vortioxetine has no clinically meaningful effect on substrates of CYP2B6, CYP2C9, or CYP2C19.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Tablets
May administer without regard to food or meals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Dosage adjustments are not required in mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Dose adjustments are not required in mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease.
