=== Sodium Phenylbutyrate/Taurursodiol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5419)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 6 g sodium phenylbutyrate/day and 2 g taurursodiol/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): hypersalivation

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - Relyvrio

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        3 g sodium phenylbutyrate/1 g taurursodiol PO once daily for the first 3 weeks, then increase the dose to 3 g sodium phenylbutyrate/1 g taurursodiol PO twice daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    heart failure, hypertension, renal impairment
    General Information
    Advise persons sensitive to salt intake (e.g., those with heart failure, hypertension, or renal impairment) to consider the amount of daily sodium intake in each dose of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and monitor appropriately. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol has a high salt content.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    cholangitis, cholestasis, gallbladder disease, malabsorption syndrome, pancreatic insufficiency, pancreatitis
    General Information
    Persons with disorders that interfere with bile acid circulation may be at increased risk for worsening diarrhea; monitor appropriately for this adverse reaction in this population. Pancreatic insufficiency, intestinal malabsorption syndrome, or intestinal disease that may alter the concentrations of bile acids may also lead to decreased absorption of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Because different enterohepatic circulation, pancreatic, and intestinal disorders have varying degrees of severity, consider consulting with a specialist. Persons with disorders of enterohepatic circulation (e.g., cholestasis, cholangitis, gallbladder disease, etc.), severe pancreatic disorders (e.g., pancreatitis), and intestinal disorders that may alter concentrations of bile acids (e.g., ileal resection, regional ileitis, etc.) were excluded from the study; therefore, there is no clinical experience in these conditions. Taurursodiol is a bile acid.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol in human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Increased offspring mortality has been observed in animal studies. Oral administration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol (0, 375, 750, or 1,500 mg/kg/day) to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in increases in stillbirth at all doses tested. Increased pup deaths occurred at the highest dose tested. The lowest dose tested was less than the maximum recommended human dose, based on body surface area.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol or the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol in human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Increased offspring mortality has been observed in animal studies. Oral administration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol (0, 375, 750, or 1,500 mg/kg/day) to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in increases in stillbirth at all doses tested. Increased pup deaths occurred at the highest dose tested. The lowest dose tested was less than the maximum recommended human dose, based on body surface area.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol or the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of taurursodiol and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of taurursodiol. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a weak CYP3A inducer like taurursodiol with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with taurursodiol due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a BCRP inhibitor.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of aluminum-based antacids and taurursodiol, and consider other acid lowering medications. Coadministration may decrease the absorption of taurursodiol.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of aluminum-based antacids and taurursodiol, and consider other acid lowering medications. Coadministration may decrease the absorption of taurursodiol.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of aluminum-based antacids and taurursodiol, and consider other acid lowering medications. Coadministration may decrease the absorption of taurursodiol.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of aluminum-based antacids and taurursodiol, and consider other acid lowering medications. Coadministration may decrease the absorption of taurursodiol.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of aluminum-based antacids and taurursodiol, and consider other acid lowering medications. Coadministration may decrease the absorption of taurursodiol.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulbactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurusodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulbactam exposure. Sulbactam is an OAT1 substrate and taurusodiol is an OAT1 inhibitor.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of anagrelide and adjust dose accordingly if concomitant use of taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease anagrelide exposure; anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with taurursodiol is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Aztreonam; Avibactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in avibactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avibactam exposure. Avibactam is an OAT1 substrate and taurursodiol is a OAT1 inhibitor.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Belinostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate and belinostat. Concomitant use may result in unpredictable effects, resulting in increased toxicities or a reduction in efficacy. Sodium phenylbutyrate and belinostat are inhibitors of histone deacetylase (HDAC).
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if taurursodiol treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Concomitant use of taurursodiol may decrease bendamustine exposure, which may result in decreased efficacy. Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Budesonide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP3A inducer.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy and/or increased bupropion-related adverse effects if concomitant use of taurursodiol is necessary. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may alter bupropion exposure. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; taurursodiol is a weak CYP2B6 inhibitor and inducer. The net effect on bupropion exposure is unknown.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy and/or increased bupropion-related adverse effects if concomitant use of taurursodiol is necessary. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may alter bupropion exposure. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; taurursodiol is a weak CYP2B6 inhibitor and inducer. The net effect on bupropion exposure is unknown.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration of taurursodiol; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may decrease carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP3A inducer.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and taurursodiol. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP3A inducer.
cefTAZidime; Avibactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in avibactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avibactam exposure. Avibactam is an OAT1 substrate and taurursodiol is a OAT1 inhibitor.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cholestyramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cholestyramine and taurursodiol, and consider other cholesterol lowering medications. Coadministration may decrease the absorption of taurursodiol.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clozapine effectiveness if coadministered with taurursodiol. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When taurursodiol is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Clozapine is a CYP3A and CYP1A2 substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A and CYP1A2 inducer.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with taurursodiol can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and taurursodiol due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Colesevelam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of colesevelam and taurursodiol, and consider other cholesterol lowering medications. Coadministration may decrease the absorption of taurursodiol.
Colestipol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of colestipol and taurursodiol, and consider other cholesterol lowering medications. Coadministration may decrease the absorption of taurursodiol.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Cortisone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and cyclosporine. Monitor serum transaminases, bilirubin, and cyclosporine concentrations if coadministration cannot be avoided; the dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Cyclosporine may inhibit canalicular membrane bile acid transporters, such as the bile salt export pump (BSEP), resulting in excessive accumulation of conjugated bile salts in the liver. Concomitant use may also alter cyclosporine exposure. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor. The net effect on cyclosporine exposure is unknown.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darolutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and darolutamide. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and darolutamide is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B3 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy and/or increased bupropion-related adverse effects if concomitant use of taurursodiol is necessary. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may alter bupropion exposure. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; taurursodiol is a weak CYP2B6 inhibitor and inducer. The net effect on bupropion exposure is unknown.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP3A inducer.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Doravirine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and taurursodiol may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and taurursodiol may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with taurursodiol may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and taurursodiol may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of taurursodiol with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of taurursodiol with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with taurursodiol. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of taurursodiol. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of taurursodiol; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with taurursodiol may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with taurursodiol may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and elexacaftor. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and elexacaftor is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B3 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B3 inhibitor. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with taurursodiol may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with taurursodiol may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with taurursodiol may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and enasidenib. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and enasidenib is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and encorafenib. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and encorafenib is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with taurursodiol due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and erythromycin. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and erythromycin is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of taurursodiol is necessary. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like taurursodiol with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and fostemsavir. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and fostemsavir is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Gemfibrozil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and gemfibrozil. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and gemfibrozil is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and glecaprevir. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and glecaprevir. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and P-gp and BCRP inhibitor; glecaprevir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and OATP1B3 inhibitor. (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and pibrentasvir. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and pibrentasvir. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and P-gp and BCRP inhibitor; pibrentasvir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with haloperidol. Haloperidol has been reported to increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia).
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with taurursodiol may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of taurursodiol with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; taurursodiol may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Leflunomide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and leflunomide. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and leflunomide is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Leniolisib: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and leniolisib. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and leniolisib is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and letermovir. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and letermovir is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lidocaine if coadministration of systemic lidocaine with taurursodiol is necessary; higher doses of lidocaine may be required. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lidocaine if coadministration of systemic lidocaine with taurursodiol is necessary; higher doses of lidocaine may be required. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lidocaine if coadministration of systemic lidocaine with taurursodiol is necessary; higher doses of lidocaine may be required. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and taurursodiol as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Although data are unavailable for weak CYP3A inducers, coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer significantly decreased lumateperone exposure.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with taurursodiol. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy and/or increased mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may alter mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a P-gp and CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor. The net effect on mefloquine exposure is unknown.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal and/or increased toxicity if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Consider adjusting the dose of meperidine as needed. Concomitant use may alter meperidine exposure. If taurursodiol is discontinued, frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation or withdrawal syndrome. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP2B6 and CYP3A; taurursodiol is a weak CYP2B6 and CYP3A inducer and weak CYP2B6 inhibitor. The net effect on meperidine exposure is unknown.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal and/or increased toxicity if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Consider adjusting the dose of methadone as needed. Concomitant use may alter methadone exposure. If taurursodiol is discontinued, frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation or withdrawal syndrome. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A and CYP2B6 inducer and weak CYP2B6 inhibitor. The net effect on methadone exposure is unknown.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of mexiletine if coadministered with taurursodiol. Coadministration may decrease serum concentrations of mexiletine. Mexiletine is a CYP1A2 substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Mometasone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with taurursodiol. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy and/or increased paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may alter nab-paclitaxel exposure. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A and CYP2C8 substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer and CYP2C8 inhibitor. The net effect on paclitaxel exposure is unknown.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and taurursodiol. Concomitant use may alter sirolimus exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or increased risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and taurursodiol may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with taurursodiol as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy and/or increased paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may alter paclitaxel exposure. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A and CYP2C8 substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer and CYP2C8 inhibitor. The net effect on paclitaxel exposure is unknown.
Panobinostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate and panobinostat. Concomitant use may result in unpredictable effects, resulting in increased toxicities or a reduction in efficacy. Sodium phenylbutyrate and panobinostat are inhibitors of histone deacetylase (HDAC).
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and taurursodiol due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp or BCRP.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in posaconazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase posaconazole exposure. Posaconazole is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taurursodiol with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
predniSONE: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and pretomanid. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and pretomanid is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Probenecid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of probenecid and sodium phenylbutyrate. Coadministration may increase the risk for potential for neurotoxicity. Probenecid may inhibit renal excretion of the metabolites of sodium phenylbutyrate, including phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of probenecid and sodium phenylbutyrate. Coadministration may increase the risk for potential for neurotoxicity. Probenecid may inhibit renal excretion of the metabolites of sodium phenylbutyrate, including phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and taurursodiol due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and taurursodiol. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer taurursodiol at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and taurursodiol. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer taurursodiol at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) A dose reduction of repaglinide and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Repaglinide is a CYP2C8 substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with taurursodiol due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Resmetirom: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and resmetirom. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and resmetirom is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and rifampin. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and rifampin is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with taurursodiol may result in decreased riluzole efficacy. In vitro findings suggest decreased riluzole exposure is likely. Riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with taurursodiol; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate and romidepsin. Concomitant use may result in unpredictable effects, resulting in increased toxicities or a reduction in efficacy. Sodium phenylbutyrate and romidepsin are inhibitors of histone deacetylase (HDAC).
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a BCRP inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a BCRP inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in saquinavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase saquinavir exposure. Saquinavir is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and taurursodiol due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of taurursodiol. Concomitant use may alter sirolimus exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or increased risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and velpatasvir. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and velpatasvir is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and velpatasvir. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and velpatasvir is an OATP1B3 inhibitor. (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and voxilaprevir. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and voxilaprevir is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if taurursodiol must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Sulbactam; Durlobactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulbactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurusodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulbactam exposure. Sulbactam is an OAT1 substrate and taurusodiol is an OAT1 inhibitor.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of probenecid and sodium phenylbutyrate. Coadministration may increase the risk for potential for neurotoxicity. Probenecid may inhibit renal excretion of the metabolites of sodium phenylbutyrate, including phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and taurursodiol is an OAT3 inhibitor.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; a tacrolimus dose adjustment may be needed. Concurrent administration may decrease tacrolimus concentrations. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with taurursodiol may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and teriflunomide. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and teriflunomide is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Monitor theophylline concentrations and watch for decreased efficacy of theophylline if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; a theophylline dose increase may be necessary. Theophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and taurursodiol is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tipranavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tipranavir exposure. Tipranavir is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of taurursodiol with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; taurursodiol may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of corticosteroids with sodium phenylbutyrate may increase plasma ammonia levels (hyperammonemia) by causing the breakdown of body protein. Patients with urea cycle disorders being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate usually should not receive regular treatment with corticosteroids.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ubrogepant and taurursodiol due to unpredictable effects. Concurrent use may alter ubrogepant exposure and decrease its efficacy and/or increase the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor and weak CYP3A inducer. The net effect on ubrogepant exposure is unknown.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with taurursodiol. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and taurursodiol is a CYP3A inducer.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Monitor for too large or too rapid an increase in hemoglobin response and an increase in vadadustat-related adverse effects if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase vadadustat exposure. Vadadustat is an OAT1 substrate and taurursodiol is an OAT1 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OAT1 inhibitor increased vadadustat overall exposure by approximately 1.75-fold.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Contraindicated) Valproic acid and its analogs are contraindicated in patients with urea cycle disorders, including those being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate. Hyperammonemic encephalopathy, sometimes fatal, has been reported following initiation of valproate therapy in patients with known or suspected urea cycle disorders. Do not administer valproic acid to a patient who is being treated with sodium phenylbutyrate.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with taurursodiol due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of taurursodiol. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of taurursodiol is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of taurursodiol is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Vorinostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate and vorinostat. Concomitant use may result in unpredictable effects, resulting in increased toxicities or a reduction in efficacy. Sodium phenylbutyrate and vorinostat are inhibitors of histone deacetylase (HDAC).
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with taurursodiol is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A and CYP1A2 substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP3A and CYP1A2 inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, hypersalivation, nausea
    General Information
    During a randomized, placebo-controlled trial in subjects with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), common gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported in sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol-treated subjects (n = 89) and at a rate of at least 5% more than with placebo (n = 48) included diarrhea (25% vs. 19%), abdominal pain (21% vs. 13%), nausea (18% vs. 13%), and hypersalivation (11% vs. 2%). Gastrointestinal adverse reactions were more frequent during the first 3 weeks of treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue occurred in 12% of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol-treated subjects (n = 89) compared to 6% of subjects given placebo (n = 48) during a randomized, placebo-controlled trial in subjects with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Upper respiratory tract infection occurred in 18% of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol-treated subjects (n = 89) compared to 10% of subjects given placebo (n = 48) during a randomized, placebo-controlled trial in subjects with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness
    General Information
    Dizziness occurred in 10% of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol-treated subjects (n = 89) compared to 4% of subjects given placebo (n = 48) during a randomized, placebo-controlled trial in subjects with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an oral combination of the salt of an aromatic fatty acid and a bile acid indicated for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is not curative; however, it may slow the decline of functional abilities that occurs with ALS. In a 24-week, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial, sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol was associated with a significantly smaller decrease in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating Scale - Revised (ALSFRS-R) scores, with a mean rate of change of -1.24 points/month compared to -1.66 points/month with placebo (difference, 0.42 points/month, 95% CI 0.03 to 0.81, p = 0.03). Higher ALSFRS-R scores represent greater functional ability. In an open-label extension trial, median survival of patients randomized to sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol was 6.5 months longer compared to patients randomized to placebo, suggesting sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol may also be associated with survival benefits. Gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including abdominal pain, diarrhea, and nausea, are among the most common adverse reactions associated with sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
The exact mechanism of action by which sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol exerts its therapeutic effect in persons with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is unknown. Sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol may decrease neuronal cell death through reduction of endoplasmic reticulum stress and mitochondrial dysfunction.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Median times to maximum concentration (Tmax) for sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol are 0.5 hour and 4.5 hours after administration of a single dose in healthy subjects under fasting conditions. The maximum concentration (Cmax) and overall exposure (AUC) of sodium phenylbutyrate were reduced by 76% and 54%, respectively, in the presence of a high-fat meal. A high-fat meal did not significantly affect the Cmax of taurursodiol but increased the AUC of taurursodiol by 39%.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol have not been studied. No safety issues were observed when sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol was administered to subjects with mild hepatic impairment (according to the National Center Institute Classification system) in clinical studies. There is no clinical experience with sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol in subjects with moderate or severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The effects of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol have not been studied. No safety issues were observed when sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol was administered to subjects with mild renal impairment in clinical studies. There is no clinical experience with sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol in subjects with moderate or severe renal impairment.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is unknown.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The effect of gender on the pharmacokinetics of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is unknown.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The effect of race or ethnic groups on the pharmacokinetics of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is unknown.
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is administered orally. Plasma protein binding for sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol is 82% and 98%, respectively. The metabolism pathways and elimination routes of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol have not been confirmed in human studies. Phenylacetate was found to be a major metabolite of phenylbutyrate. Ursodiol and glyco-ursodiol were found as major metabolites of taurursodiol. The combination of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is a substrate of OATP1B3, MATE2-K, OAT3, and BSEP. Approximately 80% to 100% of sodium phenylbutyrate is excreted in the urine within 24 hours as pnenylacetylglutamine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP3A4, BCRP, BSEP, OAT1, OAT3, OATP1B3, MATE2-K, P-gp
The combination of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is a substrate of BESP, MATE2-K, OAT3, and OATP1B3. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol induces CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4 and inhibits CYP2B6, CYP2C8, BCRP, OAT1, and P-gp.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Powder for oral suspension
Empty the contents of 1 packet into a cup containing 8 ounces of room temperature water and stir vigorously.
Administer orally or via feeding tube within 1 hour of preparation.
Storage: Reconstituted suspension may be stored at room temperature for up to 1 hour after preparation. Discard any unused reconstituted suspension after 1 hour.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer before a snack or meal.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    6 g sodium phenylbutyrate/day and 2 g taurursodiol/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    6 g sodium phenylbutyrate/day and 2 g taurursodiol/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Avoid use in persons with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is needed for persons with mild hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Avoid use in persons with moderate or severe renal impairment. No dosage adjustment is needed for persons with mild renal impairment.
