=== Afamelanotide — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5167)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Afamelanotide is a melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1-R) agonist approved to increase pain-free light exposure in patients with a history of phototoxic reactions from erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP).

Routes: implantable; Common adult doses: One (16 mg) subcutaneous implant every 2 months

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): erythema, pruritus, skin irritation, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy There are no available data regarding afamelanotide use during pregnancy to evaluate a drug-associated risk. Studies in animals did not observe adverse developmental effects...

AFAMELANOTIDE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

SCENESSE

Indication Specific Dosing

For use in erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP) to increase pain free light exposure in patients with a history of phototoxic reactions

Subcutaneous implant dosage
Adults


1 implant (16 mg) inserted subcutaneously above the anterior supra-iliac crest every 2 months. Patients need to maintain sun and light protection measures during treatment to prevent phototoxic reactions related to EPP.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


There are no available data regarding afamelanotide use during pregnancy to evaluate a drug-associated risk. Studies in animals did not observe adverse developmental effects when this medication was administered at doses up to 12 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD).


breast-feeding


Use afamelanotide with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of afamelanotide in human milk, its effect on a breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no available data regarding afamelanotide use during pregnancy to evaluate a drug-associated risk. Studies in animals did not observe adverse developmental effects when this medication was administered at doses up to 12 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD).


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Afamelanotide products.

Adverse Reaction
skin hyperpigmentation


Skin hyperpigmentation was reported in 4% of afamelanotide-treated patients (vs 0% vehicle implant). Afamelanotide may lead to generalized increased skin hyperpigmentation and darkening of pre-existing nevi and ephelides. A full body skin examination is recommended twice yearly to monitor pre-existing and new skin pigmentary lesions.


nausea


Nausea was reported in 19% of patients receiving afamelanotide compared to 14% of patients receiving vehicle implants during clinical trials.


erythema, pruritus, skin irritation


During clinical trials, implant site reactions, defined as implant site bruising, discoloration, erythema, hemorrhage, hypertrophy, irritation, nodule, pain, pruritus, swelling, injection site bruising and erythema, and expelled implant, occurred in 21% of patients receiving afamelanotide vs. 10% of patients receiving vehicle implants. The most common implant site reaction in the afamelanotide group was implant site discoloration (10%). Skin irritation (2% afamelanotide vs. 0% vehicle implant) was also reported.


cough, infection


During clinical trials, oropharyngeal pain (7% afamelanotide vs. 5% vehicle implant), cough (6% afamelanotide vs. 3% vehicle implant) and respiratory tract infection (4% afamelanotide vs. 3% vehicle implant) were reported.


dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue


Neurologic adverse reactions reported in patients receiving afamelanotide treatment during clinical trials include fatigue (6% afamelanotide vs. 3% vehicle implant), dizziness (6% afamelanotide vs. 3% vehicle implant), and somnolence (drowsiness) (2% afamelanotide vs. 1% vehicle implant).


porphyria


Other adverse reactions reported in patients receiving afamelanotide treatment during clinical trials include melanocytic nevus (4% afamelanotide vs. 2% vehicle implant) and non-acute porphyria (2% afamelanotide vs. 0% vehicle implant).


angioedema, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, urticaria


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, including urticaria and angioedema, have been reported during postmarketing use of afamelanotide. Patients should be informed of the risk of hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs, initiate appropriate therapy and remove the implant if needed. The patient should not receive any further treatment with afamelanotide.


Description

Afamelanotide is a melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1-R) agonist approved to increase pain-free light exposure in patients with a history of phototoxic reactions from erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP). EPP is a rare disorder caused by mutations leading to impaired activity of ferrochelatase, an enzyme involved in heme production. The decrease in ferrochelatase activity leads to an accumulation of protoporphyrin IX (PPIX). When light reaches the skin, it can react with PPIX causing intense skin pain and skin changes, such as redness and thickening. Afamelanotide increases the production of eumelanin in the skin independent of exposure to sunlight or artificial light sources. Afamelanotide was evaluated in 2 parallel group clinical trials involving 167 adult patients with EPP. In the first trial (n = 93), the primary endpoint was the total number of hours over 180 days spent in direct sunlight between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. on days with no pain. The median number of hours with no pain was 64 hours for patients receiving afamelanotide and 41 hours for patients taking placebo. The second trial (n = 74 patients) looked at the total number of hours over 270 days spent in direct sunlight between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. during which patients experienced no pain when "most of the day" was spent outside in direct sunlight. The median number of hours with no pain was 6 hours for patients receiving afamelanotide and 0.75 hours for patients taking placebo. Afamelanotide may cause skin darkening; a full body skin examination is recommended for patients twice a year.

Mechanism Of Action

Afamelanotide is a synthetic tridecapeptide and a structural analog of alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH). Afamelanotide is a melanocortin receptor agonist and binds predominantly to MC1-R. Afamelanotide increases production of eumelanin in the skin independently of exposure to sunlight or artificial UV light sources.

Pharmacokinetics

Afamelanotide is administered by a subcutaneous insertion of an implant containing afamelanotide. High variability was observed in the plasma concentrations of afamelanotide following a single subcutaneous implant in 12 healthy volunteers. The mean Cmax was 3.7 +/- 1.3 ng/mL, AUC was 138.9 +/- 42.6 hr x ng/mL, median Tmax was 36 hours, and the apparent half-life was 15 hours. Afamelanotide may undergo hydrolysis, however, its metabolic profile has not been fully characterized.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: None
No pharmacokinetic-based drug interaction studies were conducted with afamelanotide implants.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration
Subcutaneous Administration

Insertion:
Requires an experienced clinician, specifically a healthcare professional experienced in the subcutaneous implantation procedure and who has completed the training program prior to administration.
Wear sterile gloves and use aseptic technique to minimize any chance of infection.
Remove the carton containing afamelanotide from the refrigerator to allow the product to gradually warm up to ambient temperature.
Open the implant vial just before the time of insertion by removing the seal and stopper from the glass vial. Under aseptic conditions, use blunt forceps to remove the implant and place it on a sterile gauze.
The patient should lay in a comfortable reclined supine position. Identify the insertion site 3 to 4 cm above the anterior supra-iliac crest and disinfect the skin.
Anesthetize the area of insertion if deemed necessary.
While pinching the skin of the insertion site, insert the cannula with the bevel facing upwards (away from the abdomen) at a 30 to 45 degree angle into the subcutaneous layer. Advance the cannula 2 cm into the subcutaneous layer.
Remove the stylet (obturator) from the cannula maintaining aseptic precautions.
Load the implant into the cannula.
Using the stylet (obturator) gently push the implant down the full length of the cannula's shaft.
Apply pressure to the site of the implant while removing the stylet (obturator) and the cannula. Verify that no implant or implant portion remains in the cannula.
Confirm placement of the implant by palpating the skin overlying the implant.
Cover the incision site with dressing and leave the dressing in place for 24 hours.
Monitor the patient for 30 minutes after the implant administration.
 
Removal:
If removal of the implant becomes clinically necessary, follow the below procedure:
Palpate the area of implant insertion.
Locate the position of the implant (Note that the implant is resorbable and the implant may not be able to be located from 10 days after insertion).
Inject local anesthetic at the site of foreseen puncture.
Wait for the local anesthetic to take effect.
Puncture the dermis at the site of previous insertion.
Digitally locate the trajectory of the implant.
Put digital pressure on the dermis at the distal end of the implant.
Remove the implant by digitally pushing the implant out towards the puncture site (aperture).
Use a pressure compress or band-aid on the aperture.
Observe the patient for 15 minutes after removal of the implant.
Instruct the patient to maintain the pressure compress for 12 hours.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

One (16 mg) subcutaneous implant every 2 months

Geriatric

One (16 mg) subcutaneous implant every 2 months

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

SCENESSE 16mg Implant

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier