=== Fostamatinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5046)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Fostamatinib is an oral, spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in adults with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) who have had an insufficient response to a previous treatment.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 300 mg/day PO.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Individuals with pre-existing hypertension may be more susceptible to the hypertensive effects of fostamatinib. Monitor blood pressure every 2 weeks until stable, then monthly; adjust or initiate antihypertensive therapy as needed.

Brand Names
  - Tavalisse

Dosage Forms
  - TAVALISSE 100mg Tablet
  - Tavalisse 150mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO twice daily. If platelet count has not increased to at least 50 x 109/L after 1 month, increase the dosage to 150 mg PO twice daily. Use the lowest dose to achieve and maintain a platelet count of at least 50 x 109/L as necessary to reduce the risk of bleeding. After obtaining baseline assessments, monitor CBCs monthly until a stable platelet count of at least 50 x 109/L is achieved. Monitor CBCs, including neutrophils, regularly thereafter. Monitor liver function tests (e.g., AST, ALT, and bilirubin) monthly. Monitor blood pressure every 2 weeks until a stable dose is achieved, then monthly thereafter. Discontinue fostamatinib after 12 weeks if the platelet count does not increase to a concentration sufficient to avoid clinically significant bleeding.
    Heading
    For the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) who have had an insufficient response to previous treatment

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Hypertension and hypertensive crisis can occur with the use of fostamatinib. Individuals with pre-existing hypertension may be more susceptible to the hypertensive effects of fostamatinib. Monitor blood pressure every 2 weeks until stable, then monthly; adjust or initiate antihypertensive therapy as needed. If hypertension persists despite appropriate antihypertensive therapy, fostamatinib reduction, interruption, or discontinuation may be necessary.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    adolescents, children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    Fostamatinib is not recommended for use in children younger than 18 years (i.e., neonates, infants, children, and adolescents) due to adverse effects on actively growing bones observed in nonclinical studies. In animal studies, chondrodystrophy of the femoral head, growth plate dysplasia in the proximal femur and femoro-tibial joint, and reduced bone marrow cellularity in the femur and sternum were observed.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Fostamatinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Administration of fostamatinib to rats and rabbits during organogenesis resulted in adverse developmental outcomes, including post-implantation loss, lower fetal weights, and structural abnormalities, at exposures of the major active metabolite (tamatinib) as low as 0.3 and 10 times the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on AUC, respectively. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with fostamatinib. Fostamatinib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking fostamatinib and for at least 1 month after the last dose. Based on animal data, fostamatinib may impair female fertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking fostamatinib and for at least 1 month after the last dose. Fostamatinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of fostamatinib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production. The major active metabolite of fostamatinib (tamatinib) was detected in rodent milk at concentrations 5 to 10 times higher than those seen in maternal plasma.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Fostamatinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Administration of fostamatinib to rats and rabbits during organogenesis resulted in adverse developmental outcomes, including post-implantation loss, lower fetal weights, and structural abnormalities, at exposures of the major active metabolite (tamatinib) as low as 0.3 and 10 times the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on AUC, respectively. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking fostamatinib and for at least 1 month after the last dose. Fostamatinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of fostamatinib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production. The major active metabolite of fostamatinib (tamatinib) was detected in rodent milk at concentrations 5 to 10 times higher than those seen in maternal plasma.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. If fostamatinib is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with fostamatinib may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If fostamatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. If fostamatinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If fostamatinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with adagrasib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of fostamatinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of fostamatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. If fostamatinib is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If fostamatinib is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with fostamatinib due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and fostamatinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with fostamatinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of fostamatinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus fostamatinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. If fostamatinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If fostamatinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If fostamatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and fostamatinib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when fostamatinib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping fostamatinib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If fostamatinib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and fostamatinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and fostamatinib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when fostamatinib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping fostamatinib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If fostamatinib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and fostamatinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase carbamazepine concentrations. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and CYP3A inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of fostamatinib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ceritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with chloramphenicol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If fostamatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and fostamatinib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with fostamatinib and monitor for adverse reactions. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A; fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with fostamatinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fostamatinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If fostamatinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); fostamatinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and fostamatinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing fostamatinib. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use has been observed to increase digoxin overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with fostamatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fostamatinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fostamatinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with fostamatinib. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of fostamatinib. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of fostamatinib; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with fostamatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with fostamatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and fostamatinib is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with fostamatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with fostamatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with fostamatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with fostamatinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase simvastatin overall exposure by 1.6-fold.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and fostamatinib should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. If fostamatinib is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If fostamatinib is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or fostamatinib; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including fostamatinib, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and fostamatinib as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during fostamatinib treatment due to the risk of increased fostamatinib exposure and adverse reactions. Fostamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If fostamatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If fostamatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If fostamatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with idelalisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with itraconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with fostamatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fostamatinib with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; fostamatinib may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with fostamatinib as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and fostamatinib; concurrent use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing fostamatinib. Lonafarnib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor and fostamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib (active metabolite of fostamatinib) overall exposure by 2-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with fostamatinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. If fostamatinib is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with fostamatinib can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. If fostamatinib is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with fostamatinib can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and fostamatinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mifepristone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with fostamatinib. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and fostamatinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with nefazodone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with nelfinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and fostamatinib is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with fostamatinib due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. If fostamatinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If fostamatinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and fostamatinib due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit BCRP or P-gp.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and fostamatinib. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate, and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse reactions of both drugs if concomitant use of fostamatinib and posaconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs. Tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and posaconazole is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.8-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and fostamatinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with fostamatinib; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and fostamatinib with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and fostamatinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer fostamatinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of fostamatinib is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and fostamatinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer fostamatinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of fostamatinib is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with fostamatinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with fostamatinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Rosuvastatin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and fostamatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 20 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and fostamatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 20 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2-fold.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse reactions of both drugs if concomitant use of fostamatinib and saquinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs. Tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and saquinavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and fostamatinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase simvastatin overall exposure by 1.6-fold.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of fostamatinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if fostamatinib must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. If fostamatinib is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like fostamatinib can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If fostamatinib is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with fostamatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse reactions of both drugs if concomitant use of fostamatinib and tipranavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs. Tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and tipranavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fostamatinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; fostamatinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of fostamatinib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of fostamatinib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with fostamatinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with tucatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with fostamatinib due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of fostamatinib. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of fostamatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of fostamatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voriconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with fostamatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), hypertension
    General Information
    During clinical trials, hypertension was reported in 28% of fostamatinib-treated patients (vs. 13% placebo); hypertensive crisis occurred in 1% of patients. Monitor blood pressure every 2 weeks until stable, then monthly; adjust or initiate antihypertensive therapy as needed. If hypertension persists despite appropriate antihypertensive therapy, fostamatinib reduction, interruption, or discontinuation may be necessary. Chest pain (unspecified) was also reported in 6% of patients receiving fostamatinib during clinical trials (vs. 2% placebo).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes can occur with fostamatinib treatment. During clinical trials, maximum ALT/AST concentrations of more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 9% of fostamatinib-treated patients. Specifically, ALT/AST concentrations more than 3 times and less than 5 times the ULN were reported in 3% of fostamatinib-treated patients; ALT/AST concentrations more than 5 times but less than 10 times the ULN and more than 10 times the ULN were reported in 5% and 1% of fostamatinib-treated patients, respectively. Monitor liver function tests monthly during treatment. If ALT or AST increases more than 3 times the ULN, manage hepatotoxicity with fostamatinib interruption, reduction, or discontinuation. For most patients, transaminases returned to baseline concentrations within 2 to 6 weeks of dose modification.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea
    General Information
    During clinical trials, diarrhea was reported in 31% of fostamatinib-treated patients (vs. 15% placebo). Severe diarrhea occurred in 1% of patients treated with fostamatinib. Monitor patients for the development of diarrhea. Manage diarrhea using supportive measures, including dietary changes, hydration, and antidiarrheal medication early after the onset of symptoms. If diarrhea becomes severe (Grade 3 or above), fostamatinib interruption, reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary. If diarrhea improves to mild (Grade 1), resume fostamatinib at the next lower dosage. Nausea and abdominal pain were reported in 19% (vs. 8% placebo) and 6% (vs. 2% placebo), respectively, of patients receiving fostamatinib in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, neutropenia
    General Information
    Neutropenia was reported in 6% of fostamatinib-treated patients (vs. 0% placebo) during clinical trials; febrile neutropenia occurred in 1% of patients. Respiratory infection (including upper and lower respiratory tract infections and viral upper respiratory tract infections) were reported in 11% of fostamatinib-treated patients (vs. 6% placebo). Monitor the absolute neutrophil count monthly and for signs of infection during fostamatinib therapy. Manage toxicity with fostamatinib interruption, reduction, or discontinuation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, fatigue
    General Information
    Among patients receiving fostamatinib in clinical trials, dizziness was reported in 11% of patients (vs. 8% placebo) and fatigue was reported in 6% of patients (vs. 2% placebo).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    maculopapular rash, rash
    General Information
    Among patients receiving fostamatinib during clinical trials, rash (including erythematous rash and maculopapular rash) was reported in 9% of patients (vs. 2% placebo).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal data, fostamatinib may cause female infertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Fostamatinib is an oral, spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in adults with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) who have had an insufficient response to a previous treatment. Routine monitoring of complete blood count, including neutrophils, liver function tests, and blood pressure is necessary for assessing ongoing fostamatinib safety and tolerability for an individual patient. Management of some adverse reactions, including neutropenia, hepatotoxicity, hypertension, and diarrhea, may require fostamatinib dosage interruption, reduction, or discontinuation.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Fostamatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor with activity against spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK). The major metabolite of fostamatinib, tamatinib, inhibits signal transduction of Fc-activating receptors and B-cell receptor. Tamatinib reduces antibody-mediated destruction of platelets.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration, the absolute bioavailability of tamatinib is 55%. The median Tmax of tamatinib is approximately 1.5 hours (range: 1 to 4 hours). Administration of fostamatinib with a high-calorie, high-fat meal increased tamatinib AUC by 23% and Cmax by 15%.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of fostamatinib are not altered in subjects with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A, B, and C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of fostamatinib are not altered in subjects with renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 49 mL/minute) and end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of fostamatinib are not altered by age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of fostamatinib are not altered by sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of fostamatinib are not altered by race/ethnicity.
  Text
  Fostamatinib is administered orally. Fostamatinib is a prodrug that is converted in the gut to the major active metabolite, tamatinib. Tamatinib exposure is dose proportional up to 200 mg twice daily and accumulates 2- to 3-fold upon twice daily dosing at 100 to 160 mg. Tamatinib is 98.3% protein bound in human plasma. The red blood cell to plasma concentration ratio is approximately 2.6. The mean (+/- SD) Vd at steady-state of tamatinib is 256 (+/- 92) L. Fostamatinib is metabolized in the gut by alkaline phosphatase to tamatinib, which is extensively metabolized, primarily by CYP3A4 and UGT1A9. There is minimal exposure to any tamatinib metabolites. After an oral dose, approximately 80% of the tamatinib metabolite is excreted in feces with approximately 20% excreted in the urine. The mean (+/- SD) terminal half-life of tamatinib is approximately 15 (+/- 4.3) hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C8, CYP3A4, BCRP, P-gp, UGT1A9, UGT1A1
Fostamatinib is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Tamatinib is a substrate of CYP3A4, P-gp, and UGT1A9. Tamatinib is an inducer of CYP2C8. Tamatinib is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), and UGT1A1. Inhibition of UGT1A1 can result in increased unconjugated bilirubin in the absence of other liver function test abnormalities.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer with or without food.
If a dose is missed, administer the next dose at its regularly scheduled time.
Storage: Store and dispense in the original container and do not remove desiccants. Use within 60 days after opening the bottle.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    300 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    300 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  AST/ALT 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or more and less than 5 times the ULN and symptomatic patient (e.g., nausea, vomiting, and pain): Interrupt fostamatinib. Recheck liver function tests (LFTs) every 72 hours until AST/ALT are below 1.5 times the ULN and total bilirubin remains less than 2 times the ULN. Resume fostamatinib at next lower daily dose.
AST/ALT 3 times the ULN or more and less than 5 times the ULN and asymptomatic patient: Recheck LFTs every 72 hours until AST/ALT are below 1.5 times the ULN and total bilirubin remains less than 2 times the ULN. Consider fostamatinib interruption or dose reduction if AST/ALT remains 3 to 5 times the ULN and total bilirubin remains less than 2 times the ULN. If therapy is interrupted, resume fostamatinib at next lower daily dose when AST/ALT are below 1.5 times the ULN and total bilirubin remains less than 2 times the ULN.
AST/ALT 5 times the ULN or more and total bilirubin less than 2 times the ULN: Interrupt fostamatinib. Recheck LFTs every 72 hours. If AST and ALT decrease, recheck until AST and ALT are below 1.5 times the ULN and total bilirubin remains less than 2 times the ULN; resume fostamatinib at next lower daily dose. If AST/ALT persist at 5 times the ULN or higher for 2 weeks or more, discontinue fostamatinib.
AST/ALT 3 times the ULN or more and total bilirubin more than 2 times the ULN: Discontinue fostamatinib.
Elevated unconjugated (indirect) bilirubin in absence of other LFT abnormalities: Continue fostamatinib with frequent monitoring since isolated increase in unconjugated bilirubin may be due to UGT1A1 inhibition.
 
Dosage Reduction Schedule:
Daily dose of 300 mg/day: Reduce dose to 200 mg/day (as 100 mg twice daily).
Daily dose of 200 mg/day: Reduce dose to 150 mg/day (in the morning).
Daily dose of 150 mg/day: Reduce dose to 100 mg/day (in the morning).
If further dose reduction below 100 mg/day is required, discontinue fostamatinib.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
