=== eriBULin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3713)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Eribulin mesylate is a non-taxane, microtubule dynamics inhibitor with a distinct mechanism of action from other classes of tubulin-targeted agents such as the taxanes, vinca alkaloids, and epothilones.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 1.4 mg/m2 IV.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, dehydration, pancreatitis, xerosis, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, weakness, alopecia, pruritus, rash (unspecified), stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, cough, dyspnea, pneumonitis, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during eribulin treatment. Emetic risk: Low Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1

Brand Names
  - Halaven

Dosage Forms
  - Eribulin mesylate 0.5mg/1mL Solution for injection
  - Halaven 1mg/2ml Solution for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in patients who have previously received at least 2 chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of metastatic disease, including both an anthracycline and a taxane in either the adjuvant or metastatic setting
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          1.4 mg/m2 IV over 2 to 5 minutes on days 1 and 8; treatment cycles are repeated every 21 days until disease progression. Do not administer eribulin on day 1 or day 8 if the absolute neutrophil count is less than 1,000 cells/mm3, the platelet count is less than 75,000 cells/mm3, or a patient has a grade 3 or 4 non-hematological toxicity. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe toxicity. In a clinical trial, 762 patients were randomized 2:1 to receive eribulin or another single-agent (vinorelbine 26%, gemcitabine 18%, capecitabine 18%, taxane 16%, anthracycline 9%, other 10%). The primary endpoint, overall survival, was significantly longer in patients who received eribulin (13.2 months vs. 10.6 months, p = 0.041). The objective response rate was 11% in patients who received eribulin, and the median duration of response was 4.2 months. Patients in both arms of the trial had previously received a median of 4 prior chemotherapy regimens.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of patients with breast cancer
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic liposarcoma in patients who have received a prior anthracycline-containing regimen
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          1.4 mg/m2 IV over 2 to 5 minutes on days 1 and 8; treatment cycles are repeated every 21 days until disease progression. Do not administer eribulin on day 1 or day 8 if the absolute neutrophil count is less than 1,000 cells/mm3, the platelet count is less than 75,000 cells/mm3, or a patient has a grade 3 or 4 non-hematological toxicity. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe toxicity. In a multinational, randomized, phase III trial (n = 452), the median overall survival (OS) time (primary endpoint) was significantly improved with eribulin compared with dacarbazine (13.5 months vs. 11.5 months; hazard ratio (HR) = 0.77; 95% CI, 0.62 to 0.95; p = 0.0169) in patients with high or intermediate grade, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who had received at least 2 prior systemic chemotherapy regimens (including an anthracycline). The median follow-up time for overall survival was 31 months. The median OS time was significantly improved with eribulin compared with dacarbazine therapy in 143 patients who had liposarcoma (15.6 months vs. 8.4 months; HR = 0.51; 95% CI, 0.35 to 0.75) but not in 309 patients who had leiomyosarcoma (12.7 months vs. 13 months; HR = 0.93; 95% CI, 0.71 to 1.2). The median progression-free survival time was 2.6 months in both treatment arms.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of soft-tissue sarcoma

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, infertility, male-mediated teratogenicity, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during eribulin treatment. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for at least 2 weeks after the last dose of eribulin. Due to the potential for male-mediated teratogenicity, men with female partners should avoid fathering a child and use effective contraception during and for at least 3.5 months following completion of eribulin therapy. Infertility may occur in men who receive eribulin therapy based on animal data. Testicular toxicity (hypocellularity of seminiferous epithelium with hypospermia/aspermia) was observed in rats and dogs who received eribulin doses that were lower than the recommended human dose.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, heart failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of eribulin in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Monitor electrocardiograms in patients with congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmias, drugs known to cause QT prolongation (including Class Ia and III antiarrhythmics), and electrolyte abnormalities. Correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia at baseline and periodically during therapy.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Eribulin may cause fetal harm during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and findings from animal reproduction studies. Advise females of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant while taking eribulin. Women who become pregnant while receiving eribulin should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Increased abortion rates and severe fetal external or soft tissue malformations (e.g., absence of a lower jaw and tongue or of the stomach and spleen) were observed in pregnant rats who received eribulin doses approximately 0.64-times the recommended human dose of 1.4 mg/m2. Additionally, increased embryo-fetal death/resorption, reduced fetal weights, and minor skeletal anomalies consistent with developmental delay were reported at eribulin doses approximately 0.43-times the recommended human dose.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Reduce the dose of eribulin for patients with Child-Pugh Class A or Child-Pugh Class B hepatic impairment due to increased eribulin exposure which may result in an increase in the incidence and severity of treatment-related adverse reactions including neutropenia and neutropenic fever. Eribulin was not studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) or hepatic failure.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid breast-feeding during treatment with eribulin and for 2 weeks after the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in breast-fed infants from eribulin. It is not known if eribulin mesylate is secreted in human milk or if it affects the breast-fed infant or milk production.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Reduce the dose of eribulin in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 49 mL/min) due to increased eribulin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of treatment-related adverse reactions. Eribulin was not studied in patients with severe renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute).

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Eribulin may cause fetal harm during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and findings from animal reproduction studies. Advise females of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant while taking eribulin. Women who become pregnant while receiving eribulin should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Increased abortion rates and severe fetal external or soft tissue malformations (e.g., absence of a lower jaw and tongue or of the stomach and spleen) were observed in pregnant rats who received eribulin doses approximately 0.64-times the recommended human dose of 1.4 mg/m2. Additionally, increased embryo-fetal death/resorption, reduced fetal weights, and minor skeletal anomalies consistent with developmental delay were reported at eribulin doses approximately 0.43-times the recommended human dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid breast-feeding during treatment with eribulin and for 2 weeks after the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in breast-fed infants from eribulin. It is not known if eribulin mesylate is secreted in human milk or if it affects the breast-fed infant or milk production.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as alfuzosin, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with eribulin. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with eribulin include clarithromycin.
Anagrelide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include eribulin.
Apomorphine: (Major) Use apomorphine and eribulin together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. ECG monitoring is recommended if eribulin is administered with apomorphine.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) If possible, drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval should be discontinued prior to initiating arsenic trioxide therapy. QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and complete atrioventricular block have been reported. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with arsenic trioxide include eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be avoided with artemether; lumefantrine include eribulin. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as artemether; lumefantrine must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Asenapine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) that should be avoided in combination with asenapine include eribulin. If coadministration is necessary, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with eribulin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering bedaquiline with eribulin. Both drugs have been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline electrocardiogram (ECG). An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Buprenorphine should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with eribulin. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Buprenorphine has also been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. If eribulin and buprenorphine must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Buprenorphine should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with eribulin. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Buprenorphine has also been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. If eribulin and buprenorphine must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with eribulin if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes concentration-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Eribulin is also associated with QT prolongation.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with eribulin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Phenothiazines have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP). This risk is generally higher at elevated drugs concentrations of phenothiazines. Chlorpromazine is specifically associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP ; case reports have included patients receiving therapeutic doses of chlorpromazine. Agents that prolong the QT interval could lead to torsade de pointes when combined with a phenothiazine, and therefore are generally not recommended for combined use. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used with caution with chlorpromazine include eribulin. If coadministration is necessary, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of eribulin and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Cisapride has been specifically established to have a causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes and is contraindicated for use with eribulin.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of citalopram and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with eribulin include clarithromycin.
Class IA Antiarrhythmics: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine) are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. The manufacturer of clozapine recommends caution during concurrent use with medications known to cause QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with clozapine include eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with eribulin due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Dasatinib: (Major) ECG monitoring is recommended if eribulin and dasatinib must be coadministered; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Degarelix: (Major) ECG monitoring is recommended if eribulin is administered with degarelix. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desflurane: (Major) Eribulin and halogenated anesthetics have been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin must be coadministered with a halogenated anesthetic, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) ECG monitoring is recommended if eribulin is administered with deutetrabenazine. The risk of QT prolongation may be increased with coadministration of deutetrabenazine and eribulin. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine) are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Disopyramide: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine) are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and eribulin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Donepezil: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil include eribulin.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil include eribulin.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce Torsade de Pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Contraindicated drugs inclue dronedarone.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with droperidol include eribulin. If coadministration is necessary, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Efavirenz: (Major) Although data are limited, coadministration of efavirenz and eribulin may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has been observed with use of efavirenz. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation. If these drugs must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Although data are limited, coadministration of efavirenz and eribulin may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has been observed with use of efavirenz. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation. If these drugs must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Although data are limited, coadministration of efavirenz and eribulin may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has been observed with use of efavirenz. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation. If these drugs must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Eliglustat: (Major) Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with eliglustat include eribulin.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and eliglustat due to QT prolongation. If eribulin and encorafenib must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with eribulin due to the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, ECG monitoring is recommended. Both entrectinib and eribulin have been associated with QT prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of eribulin and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of eribulin and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Major) Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. After the first fingolimod dose, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility is advised for patients taking QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsades de pointes (TdP). Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Flecainide: (Major) Flecainide should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with eribulin. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and flecainide must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsades de pointes (TdP); flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs which have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias.
Fluconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of eribulin and fluconazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and eribulin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as fluphenazine, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and eribulin. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Cases of QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine. If eribulin and fluvoxamine must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as eribulin. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fostemsavir: (Major) ECG monitoring is recommended if eribulin is administered with fostemsavir. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering eribulin with gemifloxacin. If these drugs must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Both gemifloxacin and eribulin have been associated with QT prolongation. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and eribulin together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and eribulin is necessary. ECG monitoring is recommended. Gilteritinib and eribulin have both been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with eribulin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Goserelin: (Major) Closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of eribulin with goserelin is necessary. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with eribulin include granisetron.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Eribulin and halogenated anesthetics have been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin must be coadministered with a halogenated anesthetic, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Haloperidol: (Major) QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of haloperidol, caution is advisable when prescribing the drug concurrently with medications known to prolong the QT interval, including eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Histrelin: (Major) Closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of eribulin with histrelin is necessary. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibutilide: (Major) Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with ibutilide include eribulin. If eribulin and and ibutilide are coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Iloperidone: (Major) Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; however, torsade de pointes (TdP) has not been reported. According to the manufacturer, since iloperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be avoided with iloperidone include eribulin. If coadministration is necessary, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with eribulin due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Both inotuzumab and eribulin have been associated with QT prolongation.
Isoflurane: (Major) Eribulin and halogenated anesthetics have been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin must be coadministered with a halogenated anesthetic, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Itraconazole: (Major) Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with itraconazole include eribulin.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with eribulin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and eribulin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with eribulin include clarithromycin.
Lapatinib: (Major) Closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes if coadministration of lapatinib with eribulin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to treatment. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with eribulin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with eribulin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Leuprolide: (Major) Closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of eribulin with leuprolide is necessary. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and eribulin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of lithium and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor ECG if lofexidine is coadministered with eribulin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Loperamide: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and loperamide must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and loperamide must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with eribulin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Both drugs are associated with QT prolongation.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as eribulin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as mefloquine, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Methadone: (Major) The need to coadminister methadone with drugs known to prolong the QT interval should be done with extreme caution and a careful assessment of treatment risks versus benefits. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients) Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with methadone include eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and eribulin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, monitor electrocardiograms and observe patients closely for QT interval prolongation. Additionally, correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to starting eribulin; monitor electrolytes periodically during therapy. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of eribulin and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of eribulin and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with administration of moxifloxacin. Post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including torsade de pointes (TdP), usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded. According to the manufacturer, moxifloxacin should be avoided in patients taking drugs that can result in prolongation of the QT interval. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP include eribulin. If coadministration is necessary, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and eribulin; significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. Sudden death and QT prolongation have been reported in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Additionally, QT prolongation has occurred with eribulin use.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Therefore, caution is advised when administering olanzapine with drugs having an established causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with olanzapine include eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Therefore, caution is advised when administering olanzapine with drugs having an established causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with olanzapine include eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and eribulin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Therefore, caution is advised when administering olanzapine with drugs having an established causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with olanzapine include eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with eribulin. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of eribulin with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes if coadministration of eribulin with oxaliplatin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation; QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking eribulin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, monitor ECGs. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, including eribulin. However, if coadministration is considered necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential. ECG monitoring is recommended during coadministration.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with panobinostat include eribulin.
Pasireotide: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and pasireotide must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of pazopanib and other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as eribulin, is not advised; pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If pazopanib and eribulin must be continued, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Pentamidine: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with eribulin include pentamidine.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as perphenazine, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as perphenazine, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as eribulin. If coadministration is necessary, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because of the potential for TdP, use of eribulin with pimozide is contraindicated.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with eribulin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, monitor ECG. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking eribulin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, monitor ECGs and for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Posaconazole: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with eribulin include posaconazole.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Procainamide: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine) are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines have been reported to prolong the QT interval. Concurrent use of drugs that are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) with prochlorperazine should be approached with caution. If coadministration is considered necessary, and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmia, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine) are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
quiNINE: (Major) Concurrent use of quinine and eribulin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If these drugs must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Quinine has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of TdP. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as ranolazine, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Relugolix: (Major) ECG monitoring is recommended if eribulin is administered with relugolix. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) ECG monitoring is recommended if eribulin is administered with relugolix. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with eribulin due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with eribulin due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor ECG if risperidone is coadministered with eribulin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with another drug that prolongs the QT interval, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with romidepsin include eribulin.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid administering saquinavir boosted with ritonavir concurrently with eribulin. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform an ECG at baseline and during concomitant therapy. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with eribulin is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Eribulin and halogenated anesthetics have been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin must be coadministered with a halogenated anesthetic, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving eribulin due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Solifenacin: (Major) Solifenacin should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with eribulin. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsades de pointes (TdP) has been reported with post-marketing use, although causality was not determined. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and solifenacin must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with eribulin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Both drugs are associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SUNItinib: (Major) Closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of eribulin with sunitinib is necessary. Sunitinib can cause dose-dependent QT prolongation, which may increase the risk for ventricular arrhythmias, including torsades de points (TdP). Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Tacrolimus causes QT prolongation. Reducing the tacrolimus dose, close monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood concentrations, and monitoring for QT prolongation is recommended when coadministrating tacrolimus with other substrates and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4 that also have the potential to prolong the QT interval such as eribulin.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as telavancin, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). The manufacturer recommends avoiding concurrent use of tetrabenazine with other drugs known to prolong QTc. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with tetrabenazine include eribulin. ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Thioridazine has been specifically established to have a causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes and is contraindicated for use with eribulin.
Tolterodine: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering tolterodine with eribulin. If these drugs must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of eribulin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as trifluoperazine, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Major) Closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of eribulin with triptorelin is necessary. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with eribulin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If vemurafenib and another drug that potentially prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) Monitor ECG if eribulin is coadministered with voclosporin. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with eribulin include clarithromycin.
Voriconazole: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering voriconazole with eribulin. If these drugs must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Voriconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of arrhythmias, including TdP. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Vorinostat: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as vorinostat, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and eribulin should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy including neuropathy, peripheral motor neuropathy, polyneuropathy, peripheral sensory neuropathy, and paresthesias has been reported in patients who received eribulin in clinical trials. Monitor patients for signs of peripheral motor and sensory neuropathy prior to each eribulin dose. Therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe neuropathy. Peripheral neuropathy (all grade, 35%; grade 3 or higher, 8%), headache (all grade, 19%; grade 3 or higher, < 1%), dysgeusia (5% to < 10%), and dizziness (5% to < 10%) were reported in patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial. Neuropathy lasting more than 1 year was reported in 5% of patients; additionally, 22% of patients developed a new or worsening neuropathy that did not recover within a median follow-up duration of 269 days (range, 25 to 662 days). Peripheral neuropathy (all grade, 29%; grade 3 and 4, 3.1%), headache (18%), dysgeusia (5% to < 10%), and dizziness (5% to < 10%) occurred in patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial. The median time to first occurrence of peripheral neuropathy was 5 months (range: 3.5 months to 9 months). In the 65 patients who experienced neuropathy in this trial, 58% of patients (n = 38) had neuropathy that lasted more than 60 days and 63% of patients (n = 41) had not recovered within a median follow-up duration of 6.4 months (range, 27 days to 29 months).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic toxicity has been reported in patients who received eribulin in clinical trials. Monitor complete blood counts prior to each eribulin dose and more frequently in patients with grade 3 or 4 toxicity. Therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe hematologic toxicity. Neutropenia (all grade, 82%; grade 3 or higher, 57%), anemia (all grade, 58%; grade 3 or higher, 2%), febrile neutropenia (5%), and grade 3 or greater thrombocytopenia (1%) were reported in patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial; 2 patients (0.4%) died due to complications of febrile neutropenia. In this study, 19% of eribulin-treated patients received granulocyte colony-stimulating factor or granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. The mean time to neutrophil nadir was 13 days; time to recovery following severe neutropenia (less than 500 cells/mm3) was 8 days. Neutropenia (all grade, 63%; grade 3 and 4, 32%), anemia (all grade, 70%; grade 3 and 4, 4.1%), and thrombocytopenia (5% to 10%) occurred in patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial; additionally, febrile neutropenia resulting in death was reported in 0.9% of eribulin-treated patients. In postmarketing surveillance, lymphopenia was reported in patients who received eribulin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    QT prolongation was reported in solid tumor patients who received eribulin 1.4 mg/m2 IV on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle in an open-label, single-arm trial (n = 26). On day 8, the maximum QTcF change from baseline was 11.4 milliseconds (ms) (95% upper CI, 19.5 ms). No QT prolongation was observed with the day 1 eribulin dose. Electrocardiogram monitoring is recommended in patients who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation (i.e., congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmias/bradycardia, electrolyte imbalance) or who are receiving drugs known to prolong the QT interval (e.g., class Ia and III antiarrhythmic agents). Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to starting eribulin; monitor electrolytes periodically during therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, dehydration, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, pancreatitis, stomatitis, vomiting, xerosis
    General Information
    Constipation (all grade, 25%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), diarrhea (18%), nausea (all grade, 35%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), anorexia (all grade, 20%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), vomiting (all grade, 18%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), and mucosal inflammation (all grade, 9%; grade 3 or higher, 1%) were reported in patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial. Other gastrointestinal adverse events that occurred in 5% to less than 10% of eribulin-treated patients in this study included dyspepsia, abdominal pain, stomatitis, and xerosis. Constipation (all grade, 32%; grade 3 and 4, 0.9%), diarrhea (17%), nausea (41%), decreased appetite/anorexia (19%), vomiting (19%), abdominal pain (all grade, 29%; grade 3 and 4, 1.8%), dyspepsia (5% to < 10%), and stomatitis (all grade, 14%; grade 3 and 4, 0.9%) occurred in patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial. In postmarketing surveillance, pancreatitis and dehydration were reported in patients who received eribulin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, weakness
    General Information
    Arthralgia/myalgia (all grade, 22%; grade 3 or higher, < 1%), back pain (all grade, 16%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), bone pain (all grade, 12%; grade 3 or higher, 2%), and extremity pain (all grade, 11%; grade 3 or higher, 1%) were reported in patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial. Other musculoskeletal adverse events that occurred in 5% to less than 10% of eribulin-treated patients in this study included muscle cramps/spasms and muscular weakness. Arthralgia/myalgia (16%), back pain (16%), muscle spasms (5% to < 10%), and musculoskeletal pain (5% to < 10%) occurred in patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Grade 2 or higher elevated hepatic enzymes occurred in 18% of patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer and grade 1 or less ALT levels at baseline who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial. In addition, one patient without documented liver metastases who received eribulin developed grade 2 elevations in bilirubin (hyperbilirubinemia) and ALT levels. These abnormalities resolved and did not recur with re-exposure to eribulin. Increased ALT (all grade, 43%; grade 3 and 4, 2.3%) and AST (all grade, 36%; grade 3 and 4, 0.9%) levels occurred in patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial. In postmarketing surveillance, hepatotoxicity was reported in patients who received eribulin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia, pruritus, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis
    General Information
    Alopecia (45%) and rash (unspecified) (5% to < 10%) were reported in patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial. Additionally, alopecia occurred in 35% of patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial. In postmarketing surveillance, drug hypersensitivity, pruritus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis were reported in patients who received eribulin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Cough (14%) and dyspnea (all grade, 16%; grade 3 or higher, 4%) were reported in patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial. Cough (18%) and oropharyngeal pain (5% to < 10%) occurred in patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial. In postmarketing surveillance, interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis was reported in patients who received eribulin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Infection has been reported in patients who received eribulin in clinical trials. Urinary tract infection occurred in 10% of patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or higher urinary tract infection was reported in 1% of patients. Additionally, respiratory tract infection occurred in 5% to less than 10% of eribulin-treated patients in this study. Urinary tract infection occurred in 11% of patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or 4 urinary tract infection was reported in 2.2% of eribulin-treated patients. In postmarketing surveillance, pneumonia and sepsis/neutropenic sepsis were reported in patients who received eribulin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Asthenia/fatigue occurred in 54% of patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or higher asthenia/fatigue was reported in 10% of patients. Additionally, asthenia/fatigue was reported in 62% of patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever occurred in 21% of patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer who received eribulin (n = 503) in a multicenter, randomized, comparative trial; grade 3 or higher fever was reported in less than 1% of patients. Additionally, fever occurred in 28% of patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or 4 fever was reported in 0.9% of eribulin-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight loss
    General Information
    Weight loss occurred in 21% of patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer who received eribulin (n = 503) in a multicenter, randomized, comparative trial; grade 3 or higher weight loss was reported in 1% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    lacrimation
    General Information
    Increased lacrimation was reported in 5% to less than 10% of previously treated metastatic breast cancer patients who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial. Additionally, increased lacrimation occurred in 5% to less than 10% of patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lacrimation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral edema
    General Information
    Peripheral edema was reported in 5% to less than 10% of previously treated metastatic breast cancer patients who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial. Additionally, peripheral edema occurred in 12% of patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Electrolyte abnormalities may increase the risk for QT prolongation in patient receiving eribulin therapy. Correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to starting eribulin and monitor electrolytes periodically during therapy. Hypokalemia was reported in 5% to less than 10% of previously treated metastatic breast cancer patients who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial. Hypokalemia (all grade, 30%; grade 3 and 4, 5.4%), hypocalcemia (all grade, 28%; grade 3 and 4, 5%), and hypophosphatemia (all grade, 20%; grade 3 and 4, 3.2%) occurred in patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial. In postmarketing surveillance, hypomagnesemia was reported in patients who received eribulin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anxiety, depression, insomnia
    General Information
    Insomnia and depression were each reported in 5% to less than 10% of previously treated metastatic breast cancer patients who received eribulin (n = 503) in a randomized trial. Additionally, insomnia and anxiety each occurred in 5% to less than 10% of patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypotension
    General Information
    Hypotension occurred in 5% to less than 10% of patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia occurred in 5% to less than 10% of patients with previously treated advanced liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma who received eribulin (n = 223) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Eribulin mesylate is a non-taxane, microtubule dynamics inhibitor with a distinct mechanism of action from other classes of tubulin-targeted agents such as the taxanes, vinca alkaloids, and epothilones. It is a synthetic analogue of halichondrin B, a product isolated from the rare marine sponge Halichondria okadai. In a multicenter, randomized, comparative trial, eribulin was shown to significantly extend overall survival (OS) in previously treated metastatic breast cancer patients compared to other single agent therapeutic options. Additionally, the median OS time was significantly improved with eribulin compared with dacarbazine in a subgroup of patients with previously treated, unresectable, advanced liposarcoma (n = 143) in a multinational, randomized, phase III trial. In November 2010, eribulin mesylate received FDA approval for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in patients who have previously received at least 2 chemotherapeutic regimens. In January 2016, it was approved by the FDA for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic liposarcoma in patients who have received a prior anthracycline-containing regimen.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Eribulin is a synthetic macrocyclic ketone analog of the naturally occurring macrolide halichondrin B, which is isolated from the marine sponge Halichondrai okadai. It is a potent antimitotic agent, with a distinct mechanism from other known antimitotic agents, such as taxanes, vinca alkaloids, and epothilones. Eribulin blocks cell cycle progression in the G2-M phase. It inhibits the growth phase of microtubules and sequesters tubulin in nonproductive aggregates, ultimately leading to disruption of mitotic spindles and apoptotic cell death after prolonged mitotic blockage. It accomplishes this primarily by disrupting the complex growth and shortening events of microtubules known as dynamic instability. Eribulin suppresses microtubule growth parameters at plus ends without a significant impact on shortening parameters at minus ends. This prevents the addition of tubulin dimers to the growing end of microtubules. The beta-tubulin subunit, which is exposed at the plus ends of microtubules, contains the major portion of the eribulin binding site. Dynamic instability is critical to the normal assembly and function of the mitotic spindle and subsequent cell proliferation. Dynamically unstable microtubules are necessary for the attachment of chromosomes to the mitotic spindle, for proper alignment of chromosomes at metaphase, and for signaling and induction for their separation at anaphase. The suppression of microtubule dynamics by eribulin, and subsequent prolonged mitotic blockage, leads to apoptotic cell death. Additionally, eribulin causes changes in morphology and gene expression, as well as decreased migration and invasiveness in vitro with human breast cancer cells. In mouse xenograft models of human breast cancer, eribulin treatment was associated with increased vascular perfusion and permeabilitly in the tumor cores, resulting in reduced tumor hypoxia, and changes in the expression of genes in tumor specimens associated with a change in phenotype.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    Total eribulin exposure after multiple dosing is similar to that following a single dose; no accumulation of eribulin is observed with weekly administration.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In a study of patients with mild (Child-Pugh A) and moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment, eribulin pharmacokinetics were impacted by changes in hepatic function. Compared to patients with normal hepatic function, eribulin concentrations increased 1.8-fold in patients with mild hepatic impairment and 2.5-fold in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. Lower starting doses of eribulin are recommended in these patients and result in a similar systemic exposure to patients with normal hepatic function. Eribulin has not been studied in patients with severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In a study evaluating the pharmacokinetics of eribulin, patients with moderate (CrCl 30 to 49 mL/min; n = 7) and severe (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/min; n = 6) renal impairment had 1.5-fold higher exposures to eribulin compared to patients with normal renal function (CrCl 80 mL/min or higher); a lower starting dose is recommended in these patients. The data indicate no dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild renal impairment (CrCl 50 to 79 mL/min).
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Eribulin was administered alone or in combination with irinotecan in pediatric patients (n = 77; age 2 to 16) with relapsed or refractory solid tumors and lymphomas, excluding central nervous system tumors, in 3 open-label studies. The pharmacokinetics of eribulin were within range of values of adult patients with metastatic liposarcoma or other tumors given the same dose based on body surface area.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis, age does not appear to have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of eribulin.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis, gender does not appear to have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of eribulin.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis, race does not appear to have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of eribulin.
  Text
  Eribulin mesylate is administered intravenously. It has a mean volume of distribution of 43 to 114 L/m2 and human plasma protein binding ranges from 49 to 65%. There are no major metabolites. Unchanged eribulin was the major circulating species after the administration of radiolabeled eribulin to patients. Elimination occurs primarily as unchanged drug through the feces (82%), with a small amount excreted in the urine (9%). It has a mean elimination half-life of approximately 40 hours, with a mean clearance of 1.16 to 2.42 L/hour/m2 over the dose range 0.25 to 4 mg/m2.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporter: CYP3A4, P-gp
Eribulin is minimally (less than 0.6%) metabolized by CYP3A4 in vitro. Based on pharmacokinetic studies with rifampin and ketoconazole, drug interactions are not expected with CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers. It inhibits CYP3A4 activity in human liver microsomes, but it is unlikely that this will increase exposure of CYP3A4 substrates. Eribulin is also a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and inhibitor in vitro, but this is also unlikely to result in drug interactions. Additionally, eribulin is not expected to affect plasma levels of drugs that are substrates of CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP2E1.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
Emetic Risk
Low
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Withdraw the required amount of eribulin (0.5 mg/mL) from the single-use vial.
Administer IV undiluted or diluted in 100 mL 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection; do not dilute or administer through an intravenous line containing dextrose.
Administer intravenously over 2 to 5 minutes as a slow IV push or intermittent infusion.
Do not administer in the same intravenous line concurrent with other products.
Undiluted or diluted eribulin may be stored in a syringe or IV bag for up to 4 hours at room temperature or up to 24 hours under refrigeration (4 degrees C or 40 degrees F).
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particular matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1.4 mg/m2 IV.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1.4 mg/m2 IV.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A): Decrease starting dose to 1.1 mg/m2 IV.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B): Decrease starting dose to 0.7 mg/m2 IV.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Not studied.
Treatment-Induced Hepatotoxicity
Grade 3 or higher hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or ALT/AST greater than 5 times ULN): Hold treatment with eribulin. If toxicities improve to grade 2 or less (total bilirubin greater than 1.5 to 3 times ULN or ALT/AST greater than 3 to 5 times ULN) by day 15, administer eribulin at a reduced dose (reduce dose of 1.4 mg/m2 to 1.1 mg/m2 IV; reduce dose of 1.1 mg/m2 to 0.7 mg/m2 IV) and start the next cycle of therapy no sooner than 2 weeks later. If toxicities do not improve to grade 2 or less by day 15, omit the dose. Discontinue eribulin if grade 3 or higher hepatic impairment occurs at a dose of 0.7 mg/m2; do not re-escalate eribulin dose after it has been reduced.
  Renal Impairment
  Baseline Renal Impairment
CrCl greater than or equal to 50 mL/min: No dosage adjustments are necessary.
CrCl 15 to 49 mL/min: Decrease starting dose to 1.1 mg/m2 IV.
CrCl less than 15 mL/min: Not studied.
Treatment-Induced Nephrotoxicity
Grade 3 or higher renal impairment (SCr greater than 3 times baseline, or greater than 4 mg/dL; hospitalization indicated): Hold treatment with eribulin. If toxicities improve to grade 2 or less (SCr 2 to 3 times baseline) by day 15, administer eribulin at a reduced dose (reduce dose of 1.4 mg/m2 to 1.1 mg/m2 IV; reduce dose of 1.1 mg/m2 to 0.7 mg/m2 IV) and start the next cycle of therapy no sooner than 2 weeks later. If toxicities do not improve to grade 2 or less by day 15, omit the dose. Discontinue eribulin if grade 3 or higher renal impairment occurs at a dose of 0.7 mg/m2; do not re-escalate eribulin dose after it has been reduced.
