=== Typhoid Vaccine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1613)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Typhoid fever is caused by the bacterium Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi.

Routes: intramuscular, oral; Common adult doses: 0.5 mL/dose IM for Typhim Vi; 1 capsule/dose PO for Vivotif (total of 4 capsules/immunization regimen).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): fever, headache, malaise, myalgia, rash, anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, arthralgia, asthenia, dyspnea, glomerulonephritis, hypotension, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, pruritus, serum sickness, tremor, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use of the oral typhoid vaccine is contraindicated in persons with an acute illness resulting in fever.

Brand Names
  - Typhim Vi
  - Vivotif
  - Vivotif (PaxVax, Inc.)
  - Vivotif Berna

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intramuscular dosage (Typhim Vi)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.5 mL IM as a single dose given at least 2 weeks prior to potential exposure. Reimmunize every 2 years if repeated or continued exposure occurs.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        0.5 mL IM as a single dose given at least 2 weeks prior to potential exposure. Reimmunize every 2 years if repeated or continued exposure occurs.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (Vivotif)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 capsule PO once daily given on 4 alternate days (days 1, 3, 5, and 7). Complete all 4 doses at least 1 week prior to potential exposure. Reimmunize (using same schedule as primary immunization) every 5 years if repeated or continued exposure occurs.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        1 capsule PO once daily given on 4 alternate days (days 1, 3, 5, and 7). Complete all 4 doses at least 1 week prior to potential exposure. Reimmunize (using same schedule as primary immunization) every 5 years if repeated or continued exposure occurs.
    Heading
    For primary immunization against typhoid disease cause by Salmonella typhi (typhoid prophylaxis) in persons at risk of infection

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Use of the oral typhoid vaccine is contraindicated in persons with an acute illness resulting in fever. The oral typhoid vaccine should not be administered to individuals receiving sulfonamides or other antibiotics since these agents may be active against the vaccine strain and prevent a protective immune response. Furthermore, the oral vaccine is not to be administered during an acute gastrointestinal illness; postpone the oral vaccine if persistent diarrhea or vomiting is occurring. An optimum immune response may not be achieved unless the complete immunization schedule is followed. Acute infection or febrile illness may also be a reason for delaying the use of the injectable typhoid vaccine, except when, in the opinion of the physician, withholding the vaccine involves greater risk.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    As with any vaccine, not all recipients will be fully protected against typhoid fever. Advise vaccinated individuals to continue to take personal precautions against exposure (e.g., avoid ingestion of potentially contaminated food or water).
 
Safety and immunogenicity data from controlled trials are not available for the injectable typhoid vaccine after previous immunization with whole-cell typhoid or live, oral typhoid vaccine.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate, well-controlled studies of typhoid vaccine during pregnancy. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. It is not known if administration of the vaccine can cause fetal harm. In general, live, attenuated vaccines like the oral typhoid vaccine should be avoided in pregnancy unless urgently needed, due to a theoretical risk to the fetus. No evidence exists of risk to the fetus from vaccinating pregnant people with inactivated vaccines, like the injectable formulation; however, use is usually reserved for when the likelihood of disease exposure is high, an infection would pose a risk to pregnant person or fetus, and when the vaccine is unlikely to cause harm. According to FDA-approved labeling for injectable, inactivated typhoid vaccine, delaying vaccination until the second or third trimester may be a reasonable precaution to minimize the possibility of teratogenicity.
    Headline
    immunosuppression
    General Information
    The oral typhoid vaccine is contraindicated in individuals unable to mount a humoral or cell-mediated immune response. Individuals with significant immunosuppression may not have an adequate antibody response to the typhoid vaccine. Immunosuppressed persons may include patients with asymptomatic or symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID); hypogammaglobulinemia; agammaglobulinemia; altered immune states due to diseases such as leukemia, lymphoma, or generalized neoplastic disease; or an immune system compromised by corticosteroid therapy, chemotherapy (e.g., alkylating drugs, antimetabolites), or radiation therapy. Short-term (less than 2 weeks) corticosteroid therapy or intra-articular, bursal, or tendon injections with corticosteroids should not be immunosuppressive. Patients vaccinated with the injectable typhoid vaccine within 2 weeks before starting immunosuppressive therapy or while receiving immunosuppressive therapy should be considered unvaccinated and should be revaccinated at least 3 months after therapy is discontinued if immune competence has been restored. Immune-competent patients scheduled to receive immunosuppressive therapy should be vaccinated with the oral typhoid vaccine either before or at least 3 months after treatment with the immunosuppressive agent. According to the opportunistic infection guidelines, use of the live attenuated oral typhoid vaccine is contraindicated in persons with HIV; however, the injectable typhoid vaccine may be given to patients at risk of Salmonella serotype typhi infections from travel, intimate exposure to a chronic carrier, or occupational exposure.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is not known whether the typhoid vaccine is excreted in human milk during breast-feeding. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) states that neither live nor inactivated vaccines affect the safety of breast-feeding for breast-feeding individuals or their infants. Live virus vaccines, while they may result in infection if excreted in milk, are well tolerated due to attenuation of the virus. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential drug exposure in the child, and the risk of not vaccinating the lactating individual.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate, well-controlled studies of typhoid vaccine during pregnancy. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. It is not known if administration of the vaccine can cause fetal harm. In general, live, attenuated vaccines like the oral typhoid vaccine should be avoided in pregnancy unless urgently needed, due to a theoretical risk to the fetus. No evidence exists of risk to the fetus from vaccinating pregnant people with inactivated vaccines, like the injectable formulation; however, use is usually reserved for when the likelihood of disease exposure is high, an infection would pose a risk to pregnant person or fetus, and when the vaccine is unlikely to cause harm. According to FDA-approved labeling for injectable, inactivated typhoid vaccine, delaying vaccination until the second or third trimester may be a reasonable precaution to minimize the possibility of teratogenicity.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    It is not known whether the typhoid vaccine is excreted in human milk during breast-feeding. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) states that neither live nor inactivated vaccines affect the safety of breast-feeding for breast-feeding individuals or their infants. Live virus vaccines, while they may result in infection if excreted in milk, are well tolerated due to attenuation of the virus. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential drug exposure in the child, and the risk of not vaccinating the lactating individual.

Interactions
Abatacept: (Contraindicated) If possible, administer all needed vaccines before abatacept initiation. Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with abatacept or within 3 months of its discontinuation. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased and adjusted doses or boosters that are more frequent may be required. The immune response to an inactive vaccine may still be suboptimal. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Adalimumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to adalimumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving adalimumab. Before initiation of adalimumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Adalimumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Alemtuzumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Alkylating agents: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Alpha interferons: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Amoxicillin: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Amoxicillin; Clavulanic Acid: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Ampicillin: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Anakinra: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Anifrolumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Antimetabolites: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Antithymocyte Globulin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Atacicept: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Atovaquone; Proguanil: (Major) If administered concurrently, atovaquone; proguanil can impair the immunologic response to the oral typhoid vaccine, thereby, decreasing its protective effect. If possible, administration of antimalarials should be avoided during use of the oral typhoid vaccine. In a study to determine the effects of antimalarials on the vaccine, thirty individuals were administered proguanil (200 mg daily) concurrently with the oral typhoid vaccine. Administration of proguanil with the vaccine significantly decreased the immune response to the vaccine; therefore, it is recommended to avoid administration of proguanil within 10 days of the final oral typhoid vaccine dose.
Axicabtagene Ciloleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
azaTHIOprine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Baricitinib: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines to patients taking baricitinib, as no data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Also, no data are available on the response to vaccination with any vaccine during baricitinib receipt. Before baricitinib initiation, review the vaccination status of patients, and update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines.
Basiliximab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to basiliximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving basiliximab. At least 2 weeks before initiation of basiliximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Basiliximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Belatacept: (Contraindicated) Avoid the use of live vaccines such as the intranasal influenza vaccine; measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR; Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Live, BCG; yellow fever vaccine; oral polio vaccine; varicella virus vaccine live; and TY21a typhoid vaccine during belatacept treatment. Further, inactive vaccine receipt may not illicit an acceptable response; belatacept may blunt the effectiveness of some immunizations. Consult the most current CDC guidances for vaccination recommendations.
Belimumab: (Major) Live vaccines should not be given for 30 days before or concurrently with belimumab, as clinical safety has not been established. Because of its mechanism of action, belimumab may interfere with the response to immunizations. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Betamethasone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Bexarotene: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Bimekizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Blinatumomab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to blinatumomab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving blinatumomab. At least 2 weeks before initiation of blinatumomab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Blinatumomab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Botulism Immune Globulin, BIG-IV: (Major) Vaccination with live vaccines should be deferred until 6 months after administration of botulism immune globulin as antibodies present in immune globulin preparations may interfere with the immune response to live virus vaccines. This interval may be shortened if exposure to measles is likely. If such vaccinations were given shortly before or after botulism immune globulin administration, revaccination may be necessary.
Brensocatib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as brensocatib, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Brexucabtagene Autoleucel : (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during brexucabtagene autoleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with brexucabtagene autoleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Brodalumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to brodalumab recipients. Before initiation of brodalumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving brodalumab therapy.
Budesonide: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Busulfan: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Canakinumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving canakinumab; other vaccination schedules should be complete as recommended prior to initiating canakinumab treatment. No data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines, and the efficacy and safety of live vaccines have not been established in patients receiving canakinumab. The immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased, as canakinumab may interfere with normal immune response to new antigens. Limited data are available on the effectiveness of vaccination with inactivated antigens in patients receiving canakinumab. Because interleukin-1 blockade may interfere with immune response to infections, it is recommended that prior to initiation of therapy with canakinumab, adult and pediatric patients receive any recommended vaccination (including pneumococcal vaccine and inactivated influenza vaccines).
Carmustine, BCNU: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Certolizumab pegol: (Contraindicated) Avoid use of live vaccines during or immediately prior to initiation of therapy with certolizumab. Update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines prior to initiating certolizumab therapy. If immunization is necessary, refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Chlorambucil: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ciltacabtagene Autoleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during ciltacabtagene autoleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with ciltacabtagene autoleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
CISplatin: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to cisplatin recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving cisplatin. At least 2 weeks before initiation of cisplatin therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Cisplatin recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Cladribine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Clofarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Corticosteroids (systemic): (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Cortisone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
cycloSPORINE: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Cytarabine, ARA-C: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to cytarabine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving cytarabine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of cytarabine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Cytarabine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Dacarbazine, DTIC: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Deflazacort: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Deucravacitinib: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to deucravacitinib recipients. Before initiation of deucravacitinib therapy, consider completion of all age-appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving deucravacitinib therapy.
Deuruxolitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as deuruxolitinib, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
dexAMETHasone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Dicloxacillin: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
DOCEtaxel: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to docetaxel recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving docetaxel. At least 2 weeks before initiation of docetaxel therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Docetaxel recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Dupilumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to dupilumab recipients. Before initiation of dupilumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving dupilumab therapy.
Efgartigimod Alfa: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Emapalumab: (Major) Do not administer live or live attenuated vaccines to patients receiving emapalumab and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose of emapalumab. The safety of immunization with live vaccines during or after emapalumab therapy has not been studied.
Estramustine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Etanercept: (Contraindicated) Etanercept has not been found to act as a general immunosuppressant; however, the patient's underlying disease state may result in the immunosuppression. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Etrasimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Everolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to everolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving everolimus. Before initiation of everolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Everolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Fingolimod: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving fingolimod or has discontinued the drug in the last 2 months because of the risk of infection. No data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines, and the efficacy and safety of live vaccines have not been established in patients receiving fingolimod. Before fingolimod initiation, test patients without a history of chickenpox or without vaccination against varicella zoster virus (VZV) for antibodies to VZV. Consider VZV vaccination of antibody-negative patients before fingolimod initiation, and do not start fingolimod for 1 month to allow the full effect of vaccination to occur. In addition to the concerns with live virus vaccines, the immune response to inactive vaccines or toxoids may be decreased, as fingolimod may interfere with normal immune response to new antigens. No data are available on the effectiveness of vaccination with inactivated antigens in patients receiving fingolimod. Vaccination may be less effective during and for up to 2 months after fingolimod discontinuation. For example, as compared with the response of placebo recipients, the capacity to mount a skin delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to Candida and to tetanus toxoid was decreased by approximately 30% among fingolimod 0.5 mg daily recipients. Further, in healthy patients, antigen-specific IgM titers were decreased by 25% in response to pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV-23) immunization as compared with the response by placebo recipients. Similarly, IgG titers were decreased by 50% among fingolimod recipients as compared with placebo.
Floxuridine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to floxuridine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving floxuridine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of floxuridine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Floxuridine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Fludarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Fluorouracil, 5-FU: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to fluorouracil recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving fluorouracil. At least 2 weeks before initiation of fluorouracil therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Fluorouracil recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Folate analogs: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Golimumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to golimumab recipients. Limited data are available on the response to live vaccination or on the risk of infection or infection transmission after the administration. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Guselkumab: (Major) Avoid use of live vaccines in patients being treated with guselkumab; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving guselkumab. In addition, guselkumab may decrease the vaccine-induced immune response. Before initiation of guselkumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines.
Hydrocortisone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Hydroxyurea: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Icotrokinra: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as icotrokinra, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Idecabtagene Vicleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during idecabtagene vicleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with idecabtagene vicleucell. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Ifosfamide: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to ifosfamide recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving ifosfamide. Before initiation of ifosfamide therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Ifosfamide recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Imatinib: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Inebilizumab: (Major) Administer all immunizations according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of inebilizumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment and until B-cell repletion. In a neonate or infant with in utero exposure to inebilizumab, do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines before confirming recovery of B-cell counts in the infant. Depletion of B-cells in the exposed infant may increase the risks from live or live-attenuated vaccines.
inFLIXimab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to infliximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving infliximab. Before initiation of infliximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Infliximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Interferon Gamma-1b: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of interferon gamma-1b with other immunological preparations such as live vaccines due to the risk of an unpredictable or amplified, immune response.
Ixabepilone: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ixekizumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to ixekizumab recipients. Before initiation of ixekizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving Ixekizumab therapy.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Lebrikizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Leflunomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Lenalidomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Leniolisib: (Moderate) Patients receiving leniolisib may have a diminished response to live vaccines. Counsel patients receiving leniolisib about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Lisocabtagene Maraleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during lisocabtagene maraleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with lisocabtagene maraleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Lomustine, CCNU: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Mafenide: (Major) Avoid use of sulfonamides and other antibiotics during the oral typhoid vaccination series at concurrent administration may result in a reduced immune response. In order to provided immunity, the oral typhoid vaccine requires initiation of a limited infection localized within the gastrointestinal tract. Antibiotics prevent this bacterial infection from occurring, thereby, reducing the vaccines protective immune response.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) When antimalarial medications are administered concurrently with oral live typhoid vaccine, attenuation of immunization cannot be excluded. Therefore, the manufacturer of mefloquine recommends waiting at least 3 days after use of the vaccine before administering the first dose of mefloquine. However, in a study to determine the effects of antimalarials on the immune response to the vaccine, 30 individuals were administered mefloquine (250 mg weekly) concurrently with the oral typhoid vaccine. Concomitant administration did not significantly reduce the immune response. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of the vaccine allows for simulaneous administration; however, caution is advised whenever these medications are administered concurrently.
Melphalan Flufenamide: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in patients who are receiving melphalan. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period or altered immunocompetence.
Melphalan: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in patients who are receiving melphalan. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period or altered immunocompetence.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Methotrexate: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
methylPREDNISolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
mitoXANTRONE: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to mitoxantrone recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving mitoxantrone. At least 2 weeks before initiation of mitoxantrone therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Mitoxantrone recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Mycophenolate: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to mycophenolate recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving mycophenolate. At least 2 weeks before initiation of mycophenolate therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Mycophenolate recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Nafcillin: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to sirolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving sirolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of sirolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Sirolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Natalizumab: (Contraindicated) The immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased in patients who receive natalizumab; however, no data are available. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Nelarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Nilotinib: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Nipocalimab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Obinutuzumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to obinutuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving obinutuzumab. Before initiation of obinutuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Obinutuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Ocrelizumab: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Ofatumumab: (Major) Administer all live and live-attenuated vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ofatumumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with ofatumumab; wait until B-cell recovery occurs after discontinuation of ofatumumab before administering these vaccines to a patient.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Oxacillin: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Ozanimod: (Major) Avoid the use of live vaccines and live attenuated vaccines during ozanimod treatment and for up to 3 months after discontinuation of ozanimod treatment. Live vaccinations may be less effective during ozanimod treatment and also may carry the risk of infection.
PACLitaxel: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to paclitaxel recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving paclitaxel. At least 2 weeks before initiation of paclitaxel therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Paclitaxel recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
PEMEtrexed: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Penicillin G Benzathine: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Penicillin G: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Penicillin V: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Penicillins: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Pentostatin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Pivmecillinam: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Ponesimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
PRALAtrexate: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
prednisoLONE: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
predniSONE: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Procarbazine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Purine analogs: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Remibrutinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Rilonacept: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving rilonacept. No data are available regarding the use of live vaccines during rilonacept treatment. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Risankizumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to risankizumab recipients. Before initiation of risankizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving risankizumab therapy.
Ritlecitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
riTUXimab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to rituximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving rituximab. At least 4 weeks before initiation of rituximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Rituximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to rituximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving rituximab. At least 4 weeks before initiation of rituximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Rituximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Rozanolixizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Sarilumab: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with sarilumab due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during sarilumab treatment has not been established. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving sarilumab. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of sarilumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Satralizumab: (Major) Administer all live vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of satralizumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with satralizumab.
Secukinumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to secukinumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving secukinumab. Before initiation of secukinumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Secukinumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased. Similar antibody responses were seen when healthy individuals who received a single 150 mg dose of secukinumab 2 weeks before vaccination with a non-US approved group C meningococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine and a non-US approved inactivated seasonal influenza vaccine. The efficacy of meningococcal and influenza vaccines has not been evaluated in patients undergoing treatment with secukinumab.
Sibeprenlimab: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines within 30 days prior to initiation of sibeprenlimab or during treatment as safety has not been established. Sibeprenlimab may interfere with immune responses to vaccines and increase the risk of infection from live vaccines.
Siltuximab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to siltuximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving siltuximab. Before initiation of siltuximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Siltuximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid the use of live vaccines during treatment with siponomid and for 4 weeks after stopping treatment due to the risk of secondary infection. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during siponimod treatment and for 4 weeks after siponimod treatment discontinuation.
Sirolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to sirolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving sirolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of sirolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Sirolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Spesolimab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines during and for at least 16 weeks after spesolimab treatment. Before initiation of spesolimab therapy, consider completion of all age-appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving spesolimab therapy.
Streptozocin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
sulfADIAZINE: (Major) Avoid use of sulfonamides and other antibiotics during the oral typhoid vaccination series at concurrent administration may result in a reduced immune response. In order to provided immunity, the oral typhoid vaccine requires initiation of a limited infection localized within the gastrointestinal tract. Antibiotics prevent this bacterial infection from occurring, thereby, reducing the vaccines protective immune response.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Avoid use of sulfonamides and other antibiotics during the oral typhoid vaccination series at concurrent administration may result in a reduced immune response. In order to provided immunity, the oral typhoid vaccine requires initiation of a limited infection localized within the gastrointestinal tract. Antibiotics prevent this bacterial infection from occurring, thereby, reducing the vaccines protective immune response.
sulfaSALAzine: (Major) Avoid use of sulfonamides and other antibiotics during the oral typhoid vaccination series at concurrent administration may result in a reduced immune response. In order to provided immunity, the oral typhoid vaccine requires initiation of a limited infection localized within the gastrointestinal tract. Antibiotics prevent this bacterial infection from occurring, thereby, reducing the vaccines protective immune response.
Sulfonamides: (Major) Avoid use of sulfonamides and other antibiotics during the oral typhoid vaccination series at concurrent administration may result in a reduced immune response. In order to provided immunity, the oral typhoid vaccine requires initiation of a limited infection localized within the gastrointestinal tract. Antibiotics prevent this bacterial infection from occurring, thereby, reducing the vaccines protective immune response.
Tacrolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to tacrolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving tacrolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of tacrolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Tacrolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Temozolomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Temsirolimus: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during teriflunomide use, concomitant vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended. The long half-life of teriflunomide should be considered when contemplating administration of a live vaccine after stopping the medication if the teriflunomide drug elimination procedure has not been performed.
Tezepelumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tezepelumab recipients. Before initiation of tezepelumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available regarding the response to live vaccines in patients receiving tezepelumab therapy.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Thiotepa: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Tildrakizumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tildrakizumab recipients. Before initiation of tildrakizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving tildrakizumab therapy.
Tisagenlecleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during tisagenlecleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with tisagenlecleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Tocilizumab: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with tocilizumab due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during tocilizumab treatment has not been established. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving tocilizumab. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of tocilizumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Tofacitinib: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines to patients taking tofacitinib, as no data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Also, no data are available on the response to vaccination with any vaccine during tofacitinib receipt. Before tofacitinib initiation, review the vaccination status of patients, and update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines.
Tralokinumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tralokinumab recipients. Before initiation of tralokinumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving tralokinumab therapy.
Triamcinolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Ublituximab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Upadacitinib: (Major) Avoid use of live vaccines during or immediately prior to upadacitinib therapy initiation. Before initiating upadacitinib, it is recommended that patients be brought up to date with all immunizations, including varicella zoster or prophylactic herpes zoster vaccinations, in agreement with current vaccination guidelines.
Ustekinumab: (Contraindicated) If possible, administer all recommended vaccines before ustekinumab initiation. Ustekinumab recipients may receive inactive vaccines, but the elicited immune response may be insufficient to prevent disease. Do not administer live vaccines to a ustekinumab recipient. Furthermore, do not administer BCG live vaccines for either 1 year before or 1 year after ustekinumab receipt, due to the infectious risk for Mycobacteria. No data are available on the response to live vaccination or on the risk of infection or infection transmission after the administration of other live vaccines to ustekinumab recipients. Cautious administration of ustekinumab to household contacts of ustekinumab recipients may be warranted due to the potential risk for shedding from the household contact and transmission to the patient. Practitioners should also refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Vaccinia Immune Globulin, VIG: (Major) Defer vaccination with live attenuated virus vaccines until approximately 3 months after administration of vaccinia immune globulin (VIG). Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with the immune globulin so that appropriate measures can be taken. The efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines may be impaired by vaccinia immune globulin (VIG) administration; revaccination may be necessary. The passive transfer of antibodies from the immune globulin may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines.
Vamorolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Vedolizumab: (Major) Avoid administering live vaccines to vedolizumab recipients unless the benefits outweigh the risks; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vedolizumab. Before initiation of vedolizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vedolizumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid live vaccines to venetoclax recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving venetoclax. Before initiation of venetoclax therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Venetoclax recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
vinCRIStine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Vinorelbine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vinorelbine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vinorelbine. Before initiation of vinorelbine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vinorelbine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Voclosporin: (Major) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    The most frequently reported adverse reactions associated with oral typhoid vaccine administration were gastrointestinal; abdominal pain (6.4%), diarrhea (2.9%), nausea (5.8%), and vomiting (1.5%) were reported in clinical trials involving 483 individuals receiving 3 vaccine doses. Only the incidence of nausea occurred at a statistically higher frequency in the vaccinated group as compared to the placebo group. Gastrointestinal reactions, including diarrhea (0% to 3.1%), nausea (2% to 8.2%), and vomiting (0% to 1.9%), have also been reported during clinical trials involving the injectable typhoid vaccine; abdominal pain has been reported with postmarketing use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever, headache, malaise, myalgia, rash
    General Information
    Systemic adverse reactions associated with the injectable typhoid vaccine include fever of at least 100 degrees F (0% to 2%), feeling feverish (3.1% to 11.1%), headache (11% to 27%), malaise (4.1% to 37%), and myalgia (2% to 7.4%). In children, feverishness (2.9%) and decreased activity (1.7%) were reported. Systemic adverse reactions including fever (3.3%), rash (1%), and headache (4.8%) were reported during clinical trials for the oral typhoid vaccine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    erythema, injection site reaction
    General Information
    The adverse reactions reported after intramuscular administration of the typhoid vaccine are predominately minor and transient local reactions. An injection site reaction such as injection site pain, erythema (3% to 11%), inflammation, and induration (2.9% to 18%) typically resolves within 48 hours of administration. Most patients report pain (14.3% to 56%), soreness (13%), and/or tenderness (93% to 98%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, arthralgia, asthenia, dyspnea, glomerulonephritis, hypotension, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, pruritus, serum sickness, tremor, urticaria
    General Information
    One isolated, non-fatal cause of anaphylactic shock has been reported during postmarketing use of the oral typhoid vaccine. Urticaria in the trunk and/or extremities (n = 13) has also been reported. Health care providers should take necessary precautions to ensure the safe use of the vaccine and patients should be questioned about previous reactions to typhoid vaccine or similar products. When administering the injectable typhoid vaccine, epinephrine injection (1 mg/mL) should be readily available. Adverse reactions associated with the postmarketing use of the injectable typhoid vaccine include immune reactions (anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, dyspnea, hypotension, pruritus, rash, serum sickness, and urticaria), lymphadenopathy, asthenia, malaise, flu-like symptoms, arthralgia, cervical pain, polyarthritis, tremor, loss of consciousness, asthma, glomerulonephritis, neutropenia, and bilateral retinitis. Due to the uncontrolled nature of postmarketing reports, neither the frequency nor a definitive causal relationship to the vaccines can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      glomerulonephritis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lymphadenopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      serum sickness
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    seizures, syncope
    General Information
    Syncope with and without seizures has been reported after vaccination with the injectable typhoid vaccine. Procedures should be in place to prevent injury and manage reactions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Typhoid fever is caused by the bacterium Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi. Patients in the United States (US) who develop typhoid fever usually acquire it during internation travel; however, it may be acquired in the US. Typhoid fever is transmitted through contaminated food and water and may also be transmitted via person-to-person contact. The clinical presentation includes gradually increasing fatigue, fever, headache, malaise, and anorexia. Patients may also experience abdominal pain, diarrhea, or constipation. Typhoid vaccine is available as a sterile solution containing purified Vi polysaccharide extracted from the bacterial capsule of Salmonella typhi for intramuscular use (Typhim Vi) or a live attenuated vaccine for oral use (Vivotif). These preparations are used to promote active immunity to typhoid fever for individuals who are at risk of infection and protect 50% to 80% of recipients. Routine vaccination with typhoid vaccine is not recommended in the US. Selective vaccination is recommended for persons who travel to areas where there is a recognized risk of exposure to S. typhi, persons with intimate exposure to a documented S. typhi carrier, and persons who frequently work with S. typhi in microbiology laboratories.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The exact mechanism by which typhoid vaccines protect against typhoid disease is unknown; however, it is known that administration of these vaccines produces a humoral antibody response. The typhoid vaccines will only provide protection against Salmonella typhi infections. The vaccines will not protect against viruses or other bacteria that cause enteric disease.
 
After administration of the intramuscular polysaccharide typhoid vaccine, serum anti-capsular antibodies become elevated. The specific post-vaccination antibody concentration required to confer protection against a S. typhi infection has not been determined.
 
Administration of the oral typhoid vaccine results in a local immune response in the intestinal tract. This local immunity occurs when the S. typhi TY21a vaccine strain, which contains limited quantities of essential lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-producing enzymes, infects the intestinal tract. Since the vaccine strain contains low concentrations of complete LPS, the infection is aborted; however, during this incomplete infection, anti-S. typhi LPS antibodies are produced.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    A number of studies have been conducted to evaluate the efficacy of the oral typhoid vaccine in adults and pediatric patients older than 6 years of age. These studies were conducted in endemic areas, outside of the US, and utilized a variety of dosing regimens. The study with a dosing regimen that most closely mirrors FDA-approved dosing was a field study conducted in Santiago, Chile. During this study, school-aged children were administered 2, 3, or 4 doses of the enteric-coated vaccine on alternate days. The incidence of typhoid fever was lowest for those receiving the 4 dose regimen (p less than 0.004; 95% CI = 71 to 121). For individuals in non-endemic areas, post-vaccination seroconversion is defined as a 0.15 or more increase in optical density units over baseline as determined by ELISA.
    Name
    Intramuscular Route
    Description
    Administration of the intramuscular typhoid vaccine results in an increased serum anti-capsular antibody concentration. It is this increase in serum antibodies that is thought to be the basis of protection against typhoid fever; however, the post-vaccination antibody concentration required for prophylaxis against typhoid fever has not been determined. Two studies have been conducted to evaluate the immunogenicity of the injectable typhoid vaccine in the US adult population (ages 18 to 40 years). In both studies, serum antibody concentrations were measured prior to and 4 weeks after administration of a single intramuscular dose. The majority of vaccine recipients, 96% (n = 52/54) in the first study and 88% (n = 85/97) in the second, experienced at least a 4-fold increase in anti-capsular antibody concentration. Another study evaluated the need for re-immunization in US adults who were previously immunized with the intramuscular typhoid vaccine. Study participants were divided into 1 of 2 groups. The first group received re-immunization 27 months after the initial vaccine dose; the second group received re-immunization 34 months after the initial dose. Individuals in both treatment groups achieved antibody concentrations similar to concentrations attained after their primary immunization.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Studies evaluating the immunogenicity of the intramuscular typhoid vaccine have not been conducted in the US pediatric population; however, safety and immunogenicity was evaluated in 175 Indonesian children, age 2 to 5 years. The results of this study were similar to those observed in adult populations, with 96% (n = 52/54) of vaccine recipients achieving at least a 4-fold increase in antibody concentrations at 4 weeks post-vaccination.
 
A number of studies have been conducted to evaluate the efficacy of the oral typhoid vaccine in children older than 6 years of age. These studies were conducted in endemic areas, outside of the US, and utilized a variety of dosing regimens. The study with a dosing regimen that most closely mirrors FDA-approved dosing, was a field study conducted in Santiago, Chile. During this study, school-aged children were administered 2, 3, or 4 doses of the enteric-coated vaccine on alternate days. Efficacy was determined by comparing the incidence of typhoid fever that occurred within each treatment group after administration of the vaccine. Among the 3 treatment groups, incidence of typhoid fever was lowest for those children receiving the 4 dose regimen (p less than 0.004; 95% CI = 71 to 121).
  Text
  Typhoid vaccines are administered orally (Vivotif) and intramuscularly (Typhim Vi). Vaccination does not ensure immunity.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Verify immunization status in the state or local immunization information system in addition to the health care electronic record. If this vaccine has been previously given, question the patient, parent, or guardian about any symptoms or signs of an adverse reaction.
Advise individuals on the benefits and risks of the vaccine. Provide a copy of the Vaccine Information Statement (VIS).
Record manufacturer, lot number, administration date, and the name and address of the person administering the vaccine.
Ensure supportive care, including epinephrine 1 mg/mL injection, is readily accessible in the event of a clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction.
Complete a Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) report if adverse events have been identified. The VAERS toll-free information line is 1-800-822-7967 and email address is info@vaers.org.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer on an empty stomach, approximately 1 hour prior to a meal with a cold or lukewarm drink.
Swallow capsules whole immediately after placing in the mouth. Do not chew the capsules.
Ingestion of all 4 doses on alternating days (e.g., days 1, 3, 5, and 7) is required to achieve a maximal protective immune response; immunization should be completed at least 1 week prior to potential exposure.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intramuscular Administration
      Description
      Use vaccine as supplied; reconstitution is not necessary.
A separate syringe and needle MUST be used for each patient.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The typhoid vaccine is a clear and colorless solution. Inspect the syringe or vial and its packaging for evidence of leakage, premature activation of the plunger, or a faulty tip seal prior to use. Do not administer if any of these conditions exist.
Do not mix typhoid vaccine with any other vaccine or product in the same syringe. Separate injection sites should be used in the case of concomitant administration.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mL/dose IM for Typhim Vi; 1 capsule/dose PO for Vivotif (total of 4 capsules/immunization regimen).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mL/dose IM for Typhim Vi; 1 capsule/dose PO for Vivotif (total of 4 capsules/immunization regimen).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mL/dose IM for Typhim Vi; 1 capsule/dose PO for Vivotif (total of 4 capsules/immunization regimen).
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    6 to 12 years: 0.5 mL/dose IM for Typhim Vi; 1 capsule/dose PO for Vivotif (total of 4 capsules/immunization regimen).
2 to 5 years: 0.5 mL/dose IM for Typhim Vi; safety and efficacy have not been established for Vivotif.
1 year: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
