=== Silodosin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3559)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Silodosin is a highly selective, oral alpha-1 blocker approved to treat the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 8 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthenia, dizziness, headache, insomnia, ejaculation dysfunction, infertility, priapism, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, rhinorrhea, sinusitis, angioedema, pruritus, purpura, rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Silodosin is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to the drug or any of the formulation ingredients. Symptoms of orthostasis may occur during treatment with silodosin, particularly during initiation of therapy.

Brand Names
  - Rapaflo

Dosage Forms
  - Rapaflo 8mg Capsule
  - Silodosin 4mg Oral capsule
  - Silodosin 8mg Oral capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        8 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        8 mg PO once daily until definite stone passage or 28 days. Consider silodosin for individuals with stones of more than 5 to 10 mm.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        4 mg PO once daily until definite stone passage or 28 days. Consider silodosin for individuals with stones of 10 mm or less.
    Heading
    For the treatment of distal uretal nephrolithiasis† as an adjunct to conservative management

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Silodosin is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to the drug or any of the formulation ingredients.
 
Symptoms of orthostasis may occur during treatment with silodosin, particularly during initiation of therapy. Therefore, patients should use caution when driving or operating machinery until they are aware of the effects of the medication.
 
Silodosin should be used cautiously in patients with orthostatic hypotension, vertigo, or syncope. During clinical trials, the signs and symptoms of orthostasis (postural hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo) were more frequently reported in silodosin-treated patients than those receiving placebo. As with other alpha-adrenergic blocking agents, there is a potential risk of syncope and patients should be cautioned to avoid situations where injury could result if syncope occur. Patients with renal dysfunction and geriatric patients should also be monitored carefully for exaggerated hypotensive effects (e.g., first dose effect).
 
Silodosin is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment or severe renal disease (CrCl = 10) and is therefore contraindicated in this patient population. Cautious initiation is advisable in patients with mild to moderate hepatic disease, although no dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Silodosin is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category B. Teratogenicity was not observed in animal studies. In addition, no physical or behavioral effects in animal offspring were noted. Decreased fertility, sperm viability, and sperm count was noted in male rats; however no effect on fertility was observed in females. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. Human data pertaining to the risk during pregnancy is not available. It should be noted that silodosin is indicated for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia in men and is not indicated for females and would not be used during breast-feeding.
 
Silodosin is not indicated for use in children. Silodosin has not been evaluated in patients less than 18 years of age.
 
Patients receiving or who have previously received treatment with silodosin or other alpha-1 blockers may be at risk for intraoperative floppy iris syndrome during surgery for cataracts (ocular surgery). Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome is a small pupil syndrome variant that is characterized by a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery, but ophthalmologists should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique such as the use of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Silodosin has a quinazoline structure similar to some of the other alpha-1 blockers, including prazosin, doxazosin, and terazosin. There is a potential for cross-reactivity among alpha-blockers, particularly those with similar chemical structures.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    As with other alpha-adrenergic antagonists, silodosin may cause orthostatic hypotension (postural hypotension, dizziness, and/or vertigo), which can lead to syncope. People starting treatment with silodosin should be cautioned to avoid situations where syncope could result in an injury, such as driving or operating machinery or completing other activities requiring coordination and concentration, until they are reasonably certain that silodosin does not affect them adversely.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Silodosin is contraindicated in people with severe renal impairment and renal failure (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute). Dosage reduction is recommended for people with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 49 mL/minute), with careful monitoring for adverse events, including orthostatic hypotension. During clinical trials, the incidences of orthostatic hypotension and dizziness were greater in those with moderate renal impairment than those with mild impairment or normal renal function. No dosage adjustment is needed for people with mild renal impairment (50 to 80 mL/minute).
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Silodosin is contraindicated in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure as the medication has not been studied in this population. No dosage adjustments are needed in people with mild to moderate hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    planned procedure
    General Information
    The initiation of silodosin is not recommended for people who have a planned procedure for cataract or glaucoma surgery scheduled. Use caution in patients currently taking silodosin who will have these procedures. Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during ocular surgery for cataracts and glaucoma in patients on or previously treated with alpha-1 blockers, including silodosin. This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation current, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic medications, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. The patient's surgeon should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. There does not appear to be a benefit in stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy such as silodosin prior to cataract surgery.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The risk for orthostatic hypotension due to silodosin appears to be higher in geriatric adults, particularly those 75 years or older compared to younger adults. Geriatric adults should be monitored carefully for exaggerated hypotensive effects (e.g., first-dose effect). There were otherwise no significant differences in safety or effectiveness between older and younger patients.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on silodosin use during pregnancy to determine a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with silodosin. Possible effects on male fertility could be observed based on findings in rats at silodosin exposures that were at least 2 times higher than the maximum recommended human dose (based on AUC). These findings may be reversible. The clinical relevance is unknown.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of silodosin during breast-feeding due to a lack of data. There are no available data on the presence of silodosin in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on silodosin use during pregnancy to determine a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of silodosin during breast-feeding due to a lack of data. There are no available data on the presence of silodosin in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and abrocitinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and adagrasib is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Alfuzosin: (Contraindicated) The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects, therefore, alfuzosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Alpha-blockers: (Major) Silodosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between silodosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Ambrisentan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
aMILoride: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and amiodarone due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A. Clarithromycin inhibits CYP3A and may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if silodosin and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in silodosin-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Silodosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of silodosin. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Asciminib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and asciminib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Atazanavir: (Major) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as anti-retroviral protease inhibitors may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A and P-gp. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold. (Major) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as anti-retroviral protease inhibitors may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Atenolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Avanafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on silodosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest dose of avanafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of avanafil should be started on the lowest dose of silodosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of avanafil and silodosin.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and azithromycin due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Belumosudil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and belumosudil due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Benazepril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with berotralstat is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and lenacapavir due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with brigatinib is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Brigatinib inhibits P-gp in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of P-gp substrates.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Candesartan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Cannabidiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and cannabidiol due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Silodosin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase silodosin exposure.
Captopril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Carteolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ceritinib is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as chloramphenicol may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A. Clarithromycin inhibits CYP3A and may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A and P-gp. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and conivaptan due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with crizotinib is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate. The manufacturer of silodosin recommends against concurrent use of silodosin and potent P-gp inhibitors such as cyclosporine.
Danicopan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and danicopan due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; danicopan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and daraxonrasib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; daraxonrasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and daridorexant due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as anti-retroviral protease inhibitors may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A and P-gp. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold. (Major) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as anti-retroviral protease inhibitors may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A and P-gp. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold. (Major) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as anti-retroviral protease inhibitors may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse effects if coadministered with diltiazem; silodosin exposure may be increased. In addition the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials. Diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; silodosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Although the effect of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors on silodosin exposure has not been studied, coadministration of a strong inhibitor increased the silodosin AUC by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Doxazosin: (Major) Silodosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between silodosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; dronedarone also inhibits P-gp. Silodosin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Major) The pharmacodynamic effects of coadministration of silodosin and other alpha-blockers has not been studied. Additive effects on blood pressure or an increased incidence of adverse reactions common to alpha-blocker treatment is possible. Therefore, combined use of silodosin and other alpha-blockers is not recommended.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with duvelisib is necessary. Coadministration may increase the exposure of silodosin. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and elacestrant due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; elacestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A and P-gp. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A and P-gp. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and enasidenib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; enasidenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase in the risk for treatment-related adverse reactions. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and erdafitinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. If coadministration of erdafitinib with silodosin is necessary, separate erdafitinib and silodosin doses by at least 6 hours. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4 and is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 and P-gp such as erythromycin may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Esmolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Etravirine is a CYP3A4 inducer/substrate and a P-glycoprotein (PGP) inhibitor and silodosin is a CYP3A4 and PGP substrate. Caution is warranted if these drugs are coadministered.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fedratinib is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with felodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on silodosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of silodosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue silodosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and silodosin.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as fluconazole may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations. KMD-3213G, the primary metabolite of silodosin, is formed from direct conjugation of silodosin by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 (UBT2B7). In theory, coadministration of silodosin with UBT2B7 inhibitors such as fluconazole may increase silodosin plasma concentrations.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as fluvoxamine may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fosamprenavir is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and fostamatinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Furosemide: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and gilteritinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of glecaprevir and silodosin as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of silodosin and increase the risk of adverse effects. Silodosin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); glecaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of pibrentasvir and silodosin as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of silodosin and increase the risk of adverse effects. Silodosin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); pibrentasvir is an inhibitor of P-gp.
Grapefruit juice: (Moderate) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. Grapefruit juice contains compounds that inhibit the activity of P-450 enzymes in cells lining the intestinal wall. In theory, grapefruit juice may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with silodosin, a CYP3A substrate, as silodosin toxicities may be significantly increased.
Iloprost: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as imatinib, STI-571 may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and imlunestrant due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Indapamide: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of silodosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with isavuconazonium. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as hypotension or dizziness, is recommended during coadministration. Silodosin is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with isradipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase silodosin exposure. Silodosin is a P-gp substrate; istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Silodosin is contraindicated for use during itraconazole therapy and is not recommended for 2 weeks after completion of itraconazole therapy. Concurrent use may significantly increase silodosin plasma concentrations. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of silodosin by 3.8-fold and 3.2-fold, respectively.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ketoconazole is contraindicated. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A and P-gp. Coadministration may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations. In one study, coadministration resulted in a 3.8-fold increase in maximum plasma silodosin concentrations and a 3.2-fold increase in silodosin AUC.
Labetalol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Landiolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A. Clarithromycin inhibits CYP3A and may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Lasmiditan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and lasmiditan due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. Consider if an alternative to silodosin will be appropriate for the patient. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) Caution and close monitoring of silodosin-associated adverse reactions is advised with concomitant administration of ledipasvir. Silodosin is a substrate of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); ledipasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Taking these drugs together may increase silodosin plasma concentrations.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with oral lefamulin is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. The effect of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and lenacapavir due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of silodosin may occur if given with letermovir; exercise caution and monitor patients for adverse events if these drugs are given together. Coadministration is contraindicated in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Silodosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent administration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor caused a 3.8-fold increase in the maximum plasma silodosin concentration (Cmax) and 3.2-fold increase in silodosin exposure (AUC). The effect of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of silodosin has not been evaluated.
Levacetylleucine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and levacetylleucine due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ketoconazole is contraindicated. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A and P-gp. Coadministration may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations. In one study, coadministration resulted in a 3.8-fold increase in maximum plasma silodosin concentrations and a 3.2-fold increase in silodosin AUC.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and lonafarnib is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A and is a P-gp substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ritonavir is contraindicated. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events.
Losartan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on silodosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of silodosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue silodosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and silodosin.
Maribavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and maribavir due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and mavorixafor due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
metOLazone: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4 and is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 and P-gp such as mifepristone may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and mitapivat due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mitotane: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and silodosin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of silodosin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and silodosin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of silodosin.
Moexipril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Nadolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as nefazodone may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as anti-retroviral protease inhibitors may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with nicardipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with nifedipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with nimodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and silodosin is contraindicated due to the potential for postural hypotension. Consider temporary discontinuation of silodosin during treatment with ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and for at least 2 to 3 days after treatment completion; if not feasible, consider alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase silodosin exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Silodosin is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ritonavir is contraindicated. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with nirogacestat is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with nisoldipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Silodosin is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of silodosin may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and pacritinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Perindopril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Major) Silodosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between silodosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Phentolamine: (Major) Silodosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between silodosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Pindolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and pirtobrutinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; pirtobrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Posaconazole and silodosin should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of silodosin. Further, both silodosin and posaconazole are substrates of the drug efflux protein, P-glycoprotein, which when administered together may increase the absorption or decrease the clearance of the other drug. This complex interaction may cause alterations in the plasma concentrations of both posaconazole and silodosin, ultimately resulting in an increased risk of adverse events.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Prazosin: (Major) Silodosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between silodosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and pretomanid due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and primaquine due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Probenecid: (Major) KMD-3213G, the primary metabolite of silodosin, is formed from direct conjugation of silodosin by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 (UBT2B7). In theory, coadministration of silodosin with UBT2B7 inhibitors such as probenecid may increase silodosin plasma concentrations.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) KMD-3213G, the primary metabolite of silodosin, is formed from direct conjugation of silodosin by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 (UBT2B7). In theory, coadministration of silodosin with UBT2B7 inhibitors such as probenecid may increase silodosin plasma concentrations.
Propranolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Quinapril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Ramipril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and relacorilant is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and remibrutinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ribociclib is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ribociclib is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of silodosin and rilzabrutinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure which may increase the risk for silodosin-related adverse effects. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors on silodosin has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ritonavir is contraindicated. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Saquinavir: (Major) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as anti-retroviral protease inhibitors may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and selpercatinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; selpercatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and sevabertinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on silodosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest dose of sildenafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of sildenafil should be started on the lowest dose of silodosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of sildenafil and silodosin.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and taurursodiol due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Plasma concentrations of silodosin, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, may be increased when administered concurrently with voxilaprevir, a P-gp inhibitor. Monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and sotorasib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; sotorasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and sparsentan due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Major) KMD-3213G, the primary metabolite of silodosin, is formed from direct conjugation of silodosin by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 (UBT2B7). In theory, coadministration of silodosin with UBT2B7 inhibitors such as probenecid may increase silodosin plasma concentrations.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on silodosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of silodosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue silodosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and silodosin.
Tamsulosin: (Major) The pharmacodynamic effects of coadministration of silodosin and other alpha-blockers has not been studied. Additive effects on blood pressure or an increased incidence of adverse reactions common to alpha-blocker treatment is possible. Therefore, combined use of silodosin and other alpha-blockers is not recommended.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Silodosin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of silodosin.
Tepotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and tepotinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Terazosin: (Major) Silodosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between silodosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Timolol: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. In addition, increased concentrations of silodosin may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and silodosin is a P-gp substrate.
Tipranavir: (Major) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as anti-retroviral protease inhibitors may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Torsemide: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse effects if coadministered with verapamil; silodosin exposure may be increased. In addition the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials. Verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor; silodosin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Although the effect of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors on silodosin exposure has not been studied, coadministration of a combined P-gp/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the silodosin AUC by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Triamterene: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Trofinetide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and trofinetide due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and tucatinib is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Major) KMD-3213G, the primary metabolite of silodosin, is formed from direct conjugation of silodosin by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 (UBT2B7). In theory, coadministration of silodosin with UBT2B7 inhibitors such as valproic acid may increase silodosin plasma concentrations.
Valsartan: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on silodosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest dose of vardenafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of vardenafil should be started on the lowest dose of silodosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of vardenafil and silodosin.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and silodosin may result in altered concentrations of silodosin. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (PGP) and an inducer of CYP3A4. Silodosin is a substrate of PGP and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and vepdegestrant due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse effects if coadministered with verapamil; silodosin exposure may be increased. In addition the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials. Verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor; silodosin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Although the effect of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors on silodosin exposure has not been studied, coadministration of a combined P-gp/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the silodosin AUC by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Vimseltinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and vimseltinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; vimseltinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and voclosporin due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A. Clarithromycin inhibits CYP3A and may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and voriconazole is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase of treatment-related adverse reactions. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and xanomeline due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Silodosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4. In theory, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as zafirlukast may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  During clinical trials involving 466 patients receiving silodosin and 457 patients receiving placebo, at least one treatment-emergent adverse reaction was reported in 55.2% of silodosin-treated patients and 36.8% of placebo-treated patients.In a pre-marketing comparative study, ejaculation dysfunction (i.e., abnormal ejaculation) was reported in 22.3% of silodosin-treated patients (n=175) compared with 1.6% (n=192) of tamsulosin-treated patients. During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included retrograde ejaculation (28.1% vs 0.9%). During pre-marketing studies, one case of priapism was reported.In a pre-marketing comparative study, loose stools were reported more frequently with silodosin than with tamsulosin. Diarrhea occurred at a similar rate between silodosin and tamsulosin. During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included diarrhea (2.6% vs 1.3%).During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in 1—2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included abdominal pain.During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in 1—2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included asthenia.In a pre-marketing comparative study, thirst was reported more frequently with silodosin than with tamsulosin.In a pre-marketing comparative study, dizziness occurred at a similar rate between silodosin and tamsulosin. During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included dizziness (3.2% vs 1.1%). The incidence of dizziness during treatment with silodosin is greater in those with moderate renal impairment than those with mild renal impairment or normal renal function.During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in 1—2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included insomnia.In a pre-marketing comparative study, urinary incontinence occurred at a similar rate between silodosin and tamsulosin.During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included headache (2.4% vs 0.9%).During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included orthostatic hypotension (2.6% vs 1.5%). During pre-marketing studies, syncope was reported in one patient receiving prazosin concurrently. The incidence of orthostatic hypotension appears to be increased in the elderly. Orthostatic hypotension was reported in 2.9% of elderly patients 65—74 years of age receiving silodosin versus 1.9% of those on placebo. In the same study, orthostatic hypotension occurred in 5% of patients 75 years of age and older (0% receiving placebo) and in 2.3% of those under 65 years of age (1.2% for placebo). The incidence of orthostatic hypotension is greater in those with moderate renal impairment than those with mild renal impairment or normal renal function.During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included nasopharyngitis (2.4% vs 2.2%). Nasal congestion was reported in 2.1% of silodosin-treated patients versus 0.2% of placebo-treated patients. During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included sinusitis and rhinorrhea.During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in 1—2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included an increase in prostate specific antigen (PSA).In a 9-month safety study of silodosin, 1 case of intraoperative floppy iris syndrome was reported.During post-marketing use of silodosin, toxic skin eruption and purpura have been reported. The frequencies are unknown and causality has not been established.During post-marketing use of silodosin, jaundice and hepatic dysfunction with elevated hepatic enzymes (i.e., transaminases) have been reported. The frequencies are unknown and causality has not been established.Electrophysiology studies using 24 mg of silodosin indicate that the drug is not associated with an increase in corrected QT interval in healthy individuals.In a long-term carcinogenicity study in mice, females treated with silodosin had a statistically significant increase in mammary gland adenoacanthomas and adenocarcinomas secondary to elevated prolactin levels. However, hyperprolactinemia was not observed during human trials. In a separate animal study, male rats experienced an increase in thyroid follicular cell tumors. The clinical relevance of this finding in humans is unknown.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    During clinical trials involving 466 patients receiving silodosin and 457 patients receiving placebo, at least 1 treatment-emergent adverse reaction was reported in 55.2% of silodosin-treated patients and 36.8% of placebo-treated patients.
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled clinical trials assessing silodosin 8 mg per day for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, gastrointestinal adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of men receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included diarrhea (2.6%) and abdominal pain (1% to 2%). In a pre-marketing comparative study, loose stools were reported more frequently with silodosin than with tamsulosin (9.1% vs. 3.6%). Diarrhea occurred at a similar rate between silodosin and tamsulosin (6.9% vs. 6.8%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, dizziness, headache, insomnia
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled clinical trials assessing silodosin 8 mg per day for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included dizziness (3.2%) and headache (2.4%). The incidence of dizziness during treatment with silodosin is greater in those with moderate renal impairment than those with mild renal impairment or normal renal function. Other CNS effects including asthenia and insomnia were reported in 1% to 2% of patients receiving silodosin and occurred more frequently than in those receiving placebo. In a pre-marketing comparative study, dizziness was reported at a similar rate between silodosin and tamsulosin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    orthostatic hypotension, syncope
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled clinical trials, cardiovascular adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of silodosin recipients and more frequently than placebo included orthostatic hypotension (2.6%). During pre-marketing studies, syncope was reported in one patient receiving prazosin concurrently. Orthostatic hypotension was reported at higher incidences of 2.9% of older adults (65 to 74 years) and 5% in elderly adults (75 years and older) receiving silodosin. The incidence of orthostatic hypotension was also higher in treated patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive medication (3.4%) and in those with moderate renal impairment. Thus, silodosin should also be used cautiously in people with a history of low blood pressure, who are older in age, or who have renal dysfunction. Electrophysiology studies using 24 mg of silodosin indicate that silodosin is not associated with an increase in the QTc interval in healthy individuals.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    ejaculation dysfunction, infertility, priapism
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled clinical trials assessing oral silodosin 8 mg/day for treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving silodosin and significantly more frequently than with placebo included retrograde ejaculation (28.1%), a form of ejaculation dysfunction. In a pre-marketing comparative study, ejaculation dysfunction (i.e., abnormal ejaculation) was reported in 22.3% of silodosin-treated patients (n = 175) vs. 1.6% (n = 192) of tamsulosin-treated patients. An orgasm with reduced or no semen (due to retrograde ejaculation) is common in treated men; this side effect does not pose a safety concern and is reversible with drug discontinuation. However, this side effect may affect fertility. Male infertility may occur based on animal studies where reduced sperm counts and other effects were noted in male animals (rats) during reproductive studies. Possible effects on male fertility could be observed based on findings in rats at exposures that were at least 2 times higher than at the maximum recommended human dose (based on AUC). These findings may be reversible, and the clinical relevance is unknown. Consider the potential for these effects in male patients with infertility issues. In rare (less than 1 in 50,000) cases, silodosin, like other alpha-adrenergic antagonists, has been associated with priapism (persistent painful penile erection unrelated to sexual activity); priapism was reported in 1 case during premarketing study. If not treated properly and promptly, priapism can result in irreversible damage to the penile tissue and permanent erectile dysfunction. Advise patients about the serious nature of this condition and to seek emergency medical attention if priapism occurs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ejaculation dysfunction
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    urinary incontinence
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in 1% to 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included an increase in prostate specific antigen (PSA). In a pre-marketing comparative study, urinary incontinence occurred at a similar rate between silodosin and tamsulosin (6.3% vs. 5.7%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nasal congestion, pharyngitis, rhinorrhea, sinusitis
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included pharyngitis naso-pharyngitis (2.4%) and nasal congestion (2.1%). During placebo-controlled clinical trials, adverse effects that occurred in 1% to 2% of patients receiving silodosin and more frequently than placebo included sinusitis and rhinorrhea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angioedema, pruritus, purpura, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    During postmarketing use of silodosin, toxic skin eruption, purpura, skin rash, pruritus, and urticaria have been reported. Allergic-type reactions, not limited to skin reactions, have included swollen tongue and pharyngeal edema (angioedema) resulting in serious outcomes. The frequencies are unknown and causality has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, jaundice
    General Information
    During postmarketing use of silodosin, jaundice and hepatic dysfunction with elevated hepatic enzymes (i.e., transaminases) have been reported. The frequencies are unknown and causality has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    floppy iris syndrome
    General Information
    In a 9 month safety study of silodosin, 1 case of intraoperative floppy iris syndrome was reported. Patients receiving or who have previously received treatment with silodosin or other alpha-1 blockers may be at risk for intraoperative floppy iris syndrome during surgery for cataracts (ocular surgery). Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome is a small pupil syndrome variant that is characterized by a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery, but ophthalmologists should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique such as the use of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      floppy iris syndrome
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Silodosin is a highly selective, oral alpha-1 blocker approved to treat the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Compared to placebo, silodosin provides rapid and statistically significant improvements in BPH symptoms, including obstructive (e.g., hesitancy, incomplete emptying, intermittency, and weak stream) and irritative (e.g., frequency, urgency, and nocturia) symptoms. In addition, a significant improvement in maximum urine flow rates may occur as early as 2 hours following the first dose. Silodosin is as effective as tamsulosin for improving lower urinary tract symptoms associated with BPH; however, abnormal ejaculation is reported significantly more often with silodosin than with tamsulosin.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Silodosin is a selective antagonist at post-synaptic alpha-1a receptors. Three subtypes of alpha-1 receptors have been identified: alpha-1A, alpha-1B, and alpha-1D. Alpha-1A receptors mediate human prostatic smooth muscle contraction whereas alpha-1B and alpha-1D receptors are involved in vascular smooth muscle contraction. Both alpha-1A and alpha-1B receptors exist in the prostate; however, approximately 70% of the alpha receptors in the human prostate are of the alpha-1A subtype. Blockade of these receptors by silodosin causes smooth muscles in the bladder base, bladder neck, prostate capsule, and prostatic urethra to relax thereby improving urine flow rate and reducing symptoms of BPH. The affinity of silodosin for alpha-1A receptors is 583-fold greater than for alpha-1B receptors and is 56-fold greater than for alpha-1D receptors. Because the binding affinity for alpha-1B receptors is significantly lower, there is a decreased potential for vascular effects such as hypotension. Compared to tamsulosin, silodosin is 38-times more selective for alpha-1A versus alpha-1B receptors.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, the absolute bioavailability of silodosin is approximately 32%; the mean time to maximum plasma concentration is roughly 2.6 hours. The maximum effect of food (i.e., co-administration with a high fat, high calorie meal) on silodosin pharmacokinetics was not evaluated. The effect of a moderate fat, moderate calorie meal was variable and decreased silodosin Cmax by approximately 18 to 43% and AUC by 4 to 49% across three different studies. In a separate study, the relative bioavailability of the contents of an 8 mg silodosin capsule sprinkled over cool applesauce was compared to the contents administered as an intact capsule. Based on AUC and Cmax, administration over the applesauce was bioequivalent to the intact capsule. To minimize variability, silodosin should be administered with a meal.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Single dose pharmacokinetics of 9 patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 7 to 9) were not significantly different from 9 healthy male subjects. Silodosin pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 10 or higher).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In one study, plasma concentrations of silodosin were approximately 3-times higher and the half-lives doubled in patients with moderate renal impairment (n = 6) compared to those with normal renal function (n = 7); therefore, a dosage reduction is recommended for patients with a creatinine clearance (CrCl) between 30 and 50 mL/minute. Silodosin pharmacokinetics have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    In a study comparing 12 older adult males (mean age 69 years) with 9 younger adult males (mean age 24 years), the AUC and elimination half-life of silodosin were approximately 15% and 20%, respectively, higher in the older adult patients. No difference was noted in the Cmax.
  Text
  Silodosin is administered orally. The volume of distribution is 49.5 L; the drug is approximately 97% protein bound. Silodosin undergoes extensive metabolism through glucuronidation, alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenase, and CYP3A4 pathways. The primary metabolite is KMD-3213G, which is formed from direct conjugation of silodosin by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 (UBT2B7). In vitro data indicate that KMD-3213G is an active metabolite with a half-life of approximately 24 hours. Plasma levels of KMD-3213G are 4-times greater than those of silodosin. The second major metabolite, KMD-3293, reaches similar plasma levels as silodosin, although KMD-3293 is not thought to significantly contribute to the pharmacologic actions of the drug. The elimination half-life of silodosin is 13.3 +/- 8.07 hours. After 10 days, about 33.5% and 54.9% of a dose are recovered in the urine and feces, respectively.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and is a P-gp substrate. In a clinical metabolic inhibition study, a 3.8-fold increase in silodosin maximum plasma concentrations and 3.2-fold increase in silodosin exposure were observed with concurrent administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; the concurrent use of silodosin with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated. The concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors should be avoided, and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors should be used with caution. In vitro data indicate that it does not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, or CYP3A4 and does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, or P-gp.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Swallow the capsule intact; do not chew or crush.
Alternatively, the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled over 1 tablespoonful (15 mL) of applesauce; do NOT sprinkle contents over hot applesauce or any other food or beverage. Do not subdivide capsule contents. The dose should be swallowed immediately (within 5 minutes) without chewing and followed by an 8 ounce (240 mL) glass of cool water.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer silodosin with a meal, at about the same time every day.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    8 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    8 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh A and B): No dosage adjustment is needed.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C, score 10 or higher): Contraindicated.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 50 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl 30 to 49 mL/minute: 4 mg PO once daily.
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute: Contraindicated.
