=== Artemether/Lumefantrine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3648)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Artemether; lumefantrine is a fixed artemisinin-based combination tablet indicated for the treatment of acute, uncomplicated malaria infections in patients 2 months and older with a bodyweight of at least 5 kg.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 35 kg or more: 8 tablets/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): ataxia, dizziness, headache, hyperreflexia, hypoesthesia, nystagmus, tinnitus, tremor, vertigo, hypokalemia, peptic ulcer, asthenia, chills, fatigue, fever, malaise, arthralgia, back pain, myalgia, anemia, eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, splenomegaly, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bullous rash

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. bradycardia, cardiac disease, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, family history of sudden cardiac death, females, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia...

ARTEMETHER/LUMEFANTRINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Coartem

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of malaria

For the treatment of malaria in patients with acute, uncomplicated infections due to P. falciparum, P. vivax†, P. ovale†, P. malariae†, or P. knowlesi†
Oral dosage
Adults


80 mg artemether; 480 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose, then twice daily for 2 days for a total course of 6 doses. For P. vivax or P. ovale infections, add primaquine phosphate. Guidelines recommend for chloroquine-resistant infections and for infections of unknown resistance; may also use for chloroquine-sensitive infections if necessary. Not recommended for persons who have received mefloquine prophylaxis.


Children and Adolescents weighing 35 kg or more


80 mg artemether; 480 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose, then twice daily for 2 days for a total course of 6 doses. For P. vivax or P. ovale infections, add primaquine phosphate. Guidelines recommend for chloroquine-resistant infections and for infections of unknown resistance; may also use for chloroquine-sensitive infections if necessary. Not recommended for persons who have received mefloquine prophylaxis.


Children and Adolescents weighing 25 to 34 kg


60 mg artemether; 360 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose, then twice daily for 2 days for a total course of 6 doses. For P. vivax or P. ovale infections, add primaquine phosphate. Guidelines recommend for chloroquine-resistant infections and for infections of unknown resistance; may also use for chloroquine-sensitive infections if necessary. Not recommended for persons who have received mefloquine prophylaxis.


Children weighing 15 to 24 kg


40 mg artemether; 240 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose, then twice daily for 2 days for a total course of 6 doses. For P. vivax or P. ovale infections, add primaquine phosphate. Guidelines recommend for chloroquine-resistant infections and for infections of unknown resistance; may also use for chloroquine-sensitive infections if necessary. Not recommended for persons who have received mefloquine prophylaxis.


Infants and Children 2 months and older weighing 5 to 14 kg


20 mg artemether; 120 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose, then twice daily for 2 days for a total course of 6 doses. For P. vivax or P. ovale infections, add primaquine phosphate. Guidelines recommend for chloroquine-resistant infections and for infections of unknown resistance; may also use for chloroquine-sensitive infections if necessary. Not recommended for persons who have received mefloquine prophylaxis.


For the treatment of severe malaria† prior to the availability of IV artesunate
Oral dosage
Adults


80 mg artemether; 480 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose if still needed. Discontinue when IV artesunate therapy is started.


Children and Adolescents weighing 35 kg or more


80 mg artemether; 480 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose if still needed. Discontinue when IV artesunate therapy is started.


Children and Adolescents weighing 25 to 34 kg


60 mg artemether; 360 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose if still needed. Discontinue when IV artesunate therapy is started.


Children weighing 15 to 24 kg


40 mg artemether; 240 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose if still needed. Discontinue when IV artesunate therapy is started.


Infants and Children 2 months and older weighing 5 to 14 kg


20 mg artemether; 120 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose if still needed. Discontinue when IV artesunate therapy is started.


For the treatment of severe malaria† after IV artesunate therapy is completed
Oral dosage
Adults


80 mg artemether; 480 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose, then twice daily for 2 days for a total course of 6 doses.


Children and Adolescents weighing 35 kg or more


80 mg artemether; 480 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose, then twice daily for 2 days for a total course of 6 doses.


Children and Adolescents weighing 25 to 34 kg


60 mg artemether; 360 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose, then twice daily for 2 days for a total course of 6 doses.


Children 15 to 24 kg


40 mg artemether; 240 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose, then twice daily for 2 days for a total course of 6 doses.


Infants and Children 2 months and older weighing 5 to 14 kg


20 mg artemether; 120 mg lumefantrine PO as initial dose and 8 hours after initial dose, then twice daily for 2 days for a total course of 6 doses.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

bradycardia, cardiac disease, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, family history of sudden cardiac death, females, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation


Avoid use of artemether; lumefantrine in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk.
72115
Additional risk factors may include severe cardiac disease, a history of symptomatic cardiac arrhythmias, or a family history of sudden cardiac death.


hepatic failure


Use artemether; lumefantrine with caution in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure; artemether; lumefantrine has not been studied in this population.


renal failure, renal impairment


Use artemether; lumefantrine with caution in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure; artemether; lumefantrine has not been studied in this population.


geriatric


Consider the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy in geriatric adults when using artemether; lumefantrine.


pregnancy


Guidelines suggest artemether; lumefantrine may be used for the treatment of malaria in any pregnancy trimester. A meta-analysis of observational studies that included over 500 first trimester exposures, data from observational and open-label studies that included more than 1,200 second and third-trimester exposures, and pharmacovigilance data have not established an association with artemether; lumefantrine use during pregnancy and major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. Malaria during and after pregnancy increases the risk for adverse pregnancy and neonatal outcomes, including maternal anemia, severe malaria, spontaneous abortion, stillbirths, preterm delivery, low birth weight, intrauterine growth restriction, congenital malaria, and maternal and neonatal mortality.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with artemether; lumefantrine. In animal studies, exposure to artemether; lumefantrine for 2 to 4 weeks resulted in decreased pregnancy rates in female rats. In male rats, exposure for 3 months resulted in abnormal sperm cells, decreased sperm motility, and increased testes weight.


breast-feeding


Use artemether; lumefantrine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of artemether or lumefantrine in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for artemether; lumefantrine and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the drug or the underlying medical condition. Guidelines do not recommend artemether; lumefantrine for the treatment of malaria when breast-feeding an infant weighing less than 5 kg. In general, very small amounts of antimalarial drugs are excreted in human milk. Because the quantity of antimalarial drugs transferred in breast milk is insufficient to provide adequate protection against malaria, an infant who requires chemoprophylaxis must receive the recommended dosages of antimalarial drugs.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Guidelines suggest artemether; lumefantrine may be used for the treatment of malaria in any pregnancy trimester. A meta-analysis of observational studies that included over 500 first trimester exposures, data from observational and open-label studies that included more than 1,200 second and third-trimester exposures, and pharmacovigilance data have not established an association with artemether; lumefantrine use during pregnancy and major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. Malaria during and after pregnancy increases the risk for adverse pregnancy and neonatal outcomes, including maternal anemia, severe malaria, spontaneous abortion, stillbirths, preterm delivery, low birth weight, intrauterine growth restriction, congenital malaria, and maternal and neonatal mortality.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and dihydrocodeine is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration with acetaminophen; caffeine; dihydrocodeine may lead to increased dihydrocodeine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with lumefantrine may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, dihydromorphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations and increase dihydromorphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to dihydromorphine, and by CYP3A4. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with artemether; lumefantrine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of artemether; lumefantrine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If artemether; lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Artemether; lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and artemether due to the potential for increased artemether exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If use is necessary, monitor for artemether-related adverse effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Artemether is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of artemether and dihydroartemisinin (an active metabolite of artemether) by 2.3- and 1.5-fold respectively. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and lumefantrine due to the potential for increased lumefantrine exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If use is necessary, monitor for lumefantrine-related adverse effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of lumefantrine by 1.6-fold.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring alfuzosin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Alfuzosin has a slight QT prolonging effect, based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. (Major) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if alfuzosin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Alfuzosin has a slight QT prolonging effect, based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation. (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Avoid coadministration of amisulpride and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Monitor ECG for QT prolongation if coadministration is required. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with QT interval prolongation.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Amobarbital: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Amoxapine: (Major) Because most cyclic antidepressants are partially metabolized by CYP2D6, caution is advisable during co-administration of amoxapine and potent CYP2D6 inhibitors such as artemether; lumefantrine. Elevated plasma concentrations of amoxapine may result in more pronounced anticholinergic effects and the risk of seizures may be increased.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Concurrent use of artemether; lumefantrine and clarithromycin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if clarithromycin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of clarithromycin has resulted in prolongation of the QT interval and TdP. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. In addition, clarithromycin is an inhibitor and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine.
Anagrelide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include artemether; lumefantrine.
Apalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of apalutamide and artemether is contraindicated. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and artemether is a substrate of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the AUC of artemether and dihydroartemisinin (metabolite of artemether) by 89% and 85%, respectively. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of apalutamide and lumefantrine is contraindicated due to the risk of decreased lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the AUC of lumefantrine by 68%.
Apomorphine: (Major) Concurrent use of apomorphine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if apomorphine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if artemether and multi-day regimens of oral aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in artemether-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Artemether is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of artemether. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important. (Moderate) Use caution if artemether; lumefantrine and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in artemether- and lumefantrine-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Artemether and lumefantrine are both CYP3A4 substrates. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of both artemether and lumefantrine. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and lumefantrine, if possible, especially in patients with risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). If use is necessary in patients who are receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus lumefantrine, an aripiprazole dosage reduction may be required. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse effects and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, lumefantrine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT prolongation.
Armodafinil: (Major) Armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A4/5, and a reversible inhibitor of CYP2C19. Artemether is predominantly metabolized by the CYP3A4/5 isoenzyme, with lesser contributions from CYP2C19. Coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concurrent use of arsenic trioxide and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If possible, artemether; lumefantrine should be discontinued prior to initiating arsenic trioxide therapy. Consider ECG monitoring if arsenic trioxide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. QT prolongation should also be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. Additionally, TdP and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide.
Asenapine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if asenapine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Atazanavir is a substrate/inhibitor and artemether is a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Atazanavir is a substrate/inhibitor and lumefantrine is a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Atazanavir is a substrate/inhibitor and artemether is a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Atazanavir is a substrate/inhibitor and lumefantrine is a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrate and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumefantrine exposure by 1.6-fold. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrates and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. In a drug interaction study, administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a moderate increase in exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine.
Atomoxetine: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Both atomoxetine and artemether; lumefantrine are considered drugs with a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP); therefore, the combination should be used cautiously and with close monitoring. In addition, atomoxetine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 and lumefantrine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs), atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, insomnia, and cardiac effects (e.g., hypertension, increased pulse rate, QT prolongation).
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with artemether; lumefantrine due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Barbiturates: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concurrent use of artemether; lumefantrine and bedaquiline should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both drugs have been associated with prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Bexarotene: (Major) Bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Because brexpiprazole is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6, the manufacturer recommends that the brexpiprazole dose be reduced to one-half of the usual dose in patients receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose in patients receiving a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 in combination with a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP2D6. Artemether; lumefantrine is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for brexpiprazole-related adverse reactions. It should be noted that no dosage adjustment is needed in patients taking a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor who are receiving brexpiprazole as adjunct treatment for major depressive disorder because CYP2D6 considerations are already factored into general dosing recommendations.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and timolol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased timolol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Buprenorphine: (Major) The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. If coadministration is necessary, consider ECG monitoring.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. If coadministration is necessary, consider ECG monitoring.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concurrent use of rilpivirine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if rilpivirine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation. (Major) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as artemether. In addition to avoiding drug interactions, the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP) can be reduced by avoiding the use of QT prolonging drugs in patients at substantial risk for TdP. Consider ECG monitoring if rilpivirine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
carBAMazepine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of carbamazepine and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Carbamazepine is a substrate/inducer of CYP3A4 and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and carvedilol is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased carvedilol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and tramadol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tramadol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with artemether due to the risk of QT prolongation; plasma concentrations of artemether may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and periodically monitor electrolytes; also watch for artemether-related adverse reactions. An interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that causes a concentration-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Artemether is a CYP3A4 substrate that has also been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased artemether exposure by 2.3-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with lumefantrine due to the risk of QT prolongation; plasma concentrations of lumefantrine may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and periodically monitor electrolytes; also watch for lumefantrine-related adverse reactions. An interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that causes a concentration-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate that has also been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumefantrine exposure by 1.6-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Chloramphenicol is an inhibitor and artemether a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Chloramphenicol is an inhibitor and lumefantrine a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with artemether; lumefantrine due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with artemether; lumefantrine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of artemether; lumefantrine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If artemether; lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Artemether; lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, such as chlorpromazine, coadministration may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with other drugs that prolong the QT interval should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if chlorpromazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor of and chlorpromazine is metabolized by the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpromazine concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as chlorpromazine, should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if chlorpromazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Cimetidine is an inhibitor and artemether a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Cimetidine is an inhibitor and lumefantrine a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, such as cisapride, coadministration may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with other drugs that prolong the QT interval should be avoided. (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of cisapride is contraindicated with artemether; lumefantrine.
Citalopram: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor of and citalopram is metabolized by the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased citalopram concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as citalopram, should be avoided. According to the manufacturer of citalopram, ECG monitoring is recommended in patients receiving concurrent drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Concurrent use of artemether; lumefantrine and clarithromycin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if clarithromycin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of clarithromycin has resulted in prolongation of the QT interval and TdP. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. In addition, clarithromycin is an inhibitor and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
cloZAPine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and clozapine is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased clozapine concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as clozapine, should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if clozapine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrate and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumefantrine exposure by 1.6-fold. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrates and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. In a drug interaction study, administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a moderate increase in exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Promethazine carries a possible risk of QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with promethazine include artemether; lumefantrine. Additionally, lumefantrine is an inhibitor and promethazine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased promethazine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, such as sedation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Promethazine carries a possible risk of QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with promethazine include artemether; lumefantrine. Additionally, lumefantrine is an inhibitor and promethazine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased promethazine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, such as sedation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with lumefantrine may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of lumefantrine could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., medroxyprogesterone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumefantrine with crizotinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation; an increase in lumefantrine-related adverse reactions may also occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib patients if QT prolongation occurs. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation. Additionally, crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate. The potential for increased lumefantrine concentrations when administered with CYP3A inhibitors could further increase the risk of QT prolongation. (Major) Because both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation, avoid coadministration of artemether with crizotinib if possible; an increase in artemether-related adverse reactions may also occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; a dose reduction, interruption of therapy, or discontinuation of therapy may be needed for crizotinib patients if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Artemether is a CYP3A4 substrate that is also associated with QT prolongation.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and darifenacin is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased darifenacin concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC, Cmax, Cmin) of lumefantrine are elevated when artemether; lumefantrine, a CYP3A4 substrate, is administered concurrently with darunavir, a CYP3A4 substrate/inhibitor. Although dose adjustments are not required, concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including an increased potential for QT prolongation.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrate and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumefantrine exposure by 1.6-fold. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrates and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. In a drug interaction study, administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a moderate increase in exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine. (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC, Cmax, Cmin) of lumefantrine are elevated when artemether; lumefantrine, a CYP3A4 substrate, is administered concurrently with darunavir, a CYP3A4 substrate/inhibitor. Although dose adjustments are not required, concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including an increased potential for QT prolongation.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrate and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumefantrine exposure by 1.6-fold. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrates and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. In a drug interaction study, administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a moderate increase in exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine. (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC, Cmax, Cmin) of lumefantrine are elevated when artemether; lumefantrine, a CYP3A4 substrate, is administered concurrently with darunavir, a CYP3A4 substrate/inhibitor. Although dose adjustments are not required, concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including an increased potential for QT prolongation.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of dasatinib and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if coadministration cannot be avoided, In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of dasatinib and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if coadministration cannot be avoided. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Degarelix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with degarelix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if degarelix must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Desflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be avoided with artemether; lumefantrine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if halogenated anesthetics must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Desipramine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with deutetrabenazine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if deutetrabenazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with deutetrabenazine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if deutetrabenazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. Do not exceed 18 mg/dose or 36 mg/day of deutetrabenazine if concurrent use of deutetrabenazine with artemether; lumefantrine is necessary. Lumefantrine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and the metabolites of deutetrabenazine, alpha- and beta-HTBZ, are CYP2D6 substrates. The systemic exposure of alpha- and beta-HTBZ may be increased resulting in an increase in deutetrabenazine-related adverse reactions, like QT prolongation and drowsiness.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Diltiazem is a substrate/inhibitor and artemether is a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Diltiazem is a substrate/inhibitor and lumefantrine is a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Disopyramide: (Major) Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if disopyramide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Dofetilide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with dofetilide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if dofetilide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concurrent use of rilpivirine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if rilpivirine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation. (Major) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as artemether. In addition to avoiding drug interactions, the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP) can be reduced by avoiding the use of QT prolonging drugs in patients at substantial risk for TdP. Consider ECG monitoring if rilpivirine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Donepezil: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Artemether; lumefantrine has a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil. In addition, co-administration of artemether; lumefantrine and donepezil could increase donepezil concentrations, potentially resulting in dose-related toxicity. Lumefantrine significantly inhibits CYP2D6, one isoenzyme partially involved in the metabolism of donepezil.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Artemether; lumefantrine has a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil. In addition, co-administration of artemether; lumefantrine and donepezil could increase donepezil concentrations, potentially resulting in dose-related toxicity. Lumefantrine significantly inhibits CYP2D6, one isoenzyme partially involved in the metabolism of donepezil.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and timolol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased timolol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Doxepin: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor CYP3A. Artemether and lumefantrine are both substrates of CYP3A4. Coadministration of dronedarone and artemether; lumefantrine may result in elevated plasma concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine. In addition, artemether; lumefantrine has been established to have a possible risk of QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Dronedarone is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with droperidol include artemether; lumefantrine. Consider ECG monitoring if droperidol must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and duloxetine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased duloxetine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor such as artemether; lumefantrine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of lumefantrine, including QT prolongation, if coadministered with duvelisib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of lumefantrine. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) If possible, avoid coadministration of efavirenz and artemether; lumefantrine, as use of these medications together may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has been observed with use of efavirenz. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if efavirenz must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. In addition, coadministration may decrease concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine and/or dihydroartemisinin (active metabolite of artemether). The antimalarial efficacy of artemether; lumefantrine may be decreased. In a drug interaction study, when artemether; lumefantrine was co-administered with efavirenz, the Cmax and AUC of artemether; lumefantrine decreased by 21% and 51%, respectively. If these drugs are co-administered, monitor for decreased antimalarial efficacy of artemether; lumefantrine.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) If possible, avoid coadministration of efavirenz and artemether; lumefantrine, as use of these medications together may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has been observed with use of efavirenz. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if efavirenz must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. In addition, coadministration may decrease concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine and/or dihydroartemisinin (active metabolite of artemether). The antimalarial efficacy of artemether; lumefantrine may be decreased. In a drug interaction study, when artemether; lumefantrine was co-administered with efavirenz, the Cmax and AUC of artemether; lumefantrine decreased by 21% and 51%, respectively. If these drugs are co-administered, monitor for decreased antimalarial efficacy of artemether; lumefantrine.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) If possible, avoid coadministration of efavirenz and artemether; lumefantrine, as use of these medications together may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has been observed with use of efavirenz. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if efavirenz must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. In addition, coadministration may decrease concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine and/or dihydroartemisinin (active metabolite of artemether). The antimalarial efficacy of artemether; lumefantrine may be decreased. In a drug interaction study, when artemether; lumefantrine was co-administered with efavirenz, the Cmax and AUC of artemether; lumefantrine decreased by 21% and 51%, respectively. If these drugs are co-administered, monitor for decreased antimalarial efficacy of artemether; lumefantrine.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives, oral contraceptives, and progestin contraceptives (i.e., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal treatments, including progestin-only contraceptives (e.g., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended when norethindrone is used for birth control. Women receiving norethindrone hormone replacement or contraceptives with artemether; lumefantrine should be instructed to report any breakthrough bleeding or other adverse effects to their prescribers.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering artemether; lumefantrine with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated artemether; lumefantrine plasma concentrations. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eliglustat: (Major) In extensive or intermediate CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs or IMs), coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine and eliglustat requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily; however, coadministration of eliglustat with both artemether; lumefantrine and a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor is contraindicated. Artemether; lumefantrine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor associated with QT prolongation. Eliglustat is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate that is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Coadministration of eliglustat and artemether; lumefantrine may result in additive effects on the QT interval, and potentially, increased plasma concentrations of eliglustat, further increasing the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrate and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumefantrine exposure by 1.6-fold. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrates and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. In a drug interaction study, administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a moderate increase in exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrate and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumefantrine exposure by 1.6-fold. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat with artemether; lumefantrine as there is a potential for elevated artemether, lumefantrine, and cobicistat concentrations. Both artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A4 substrates and lumefantrine is CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate of CYP2D6. In a drug interaction study, administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a moderate increase in exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concurrent use of rilpivirine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if rilpivirine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation. (Major) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as artemether. In addition to avoiding drug interactions, the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP) can be reduced by avoiding the use of QT prolonging drugs in patients at substantial risk for TdP. Consider ECG monitoring if rilpivirine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concurrent use of rilpivirine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if rilpivirine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation. (Major) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as artemether. In addition to avoiding drug interactions, the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP) can be reduced by avoiding the use of QT prolonging drugs in patients at substantial risk for TdP. Consider ECG monitoring if rilpivirine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of encorafenib and artemether is contraindicated due to the risk of decreased artemether concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Artemether is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications may prolong the QT interval. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inducer reduced the overall exposure of artemether and dihydroartemisinin (an active metabolite of artemether) by 89% and 85%, respectively. (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of lumefantrine with encorafenib is contraindicated due to decreased lumefantrine exposure which may impair efficacy. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Lumefantrine is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inducer reduced the overall exposure lumefantrine by 68%.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in artemether-related adverse reactions, such as QT prolongation, if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase artemether exposure. Artemether is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of artemether and dihydroartemisinin (an active metabolite of artemether) by 2.3- and 1.5-fold respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lumefantrine-related adverse reactions, such as QT prolongation, if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lumefantrine exposure. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of lumefantrine by 1.6-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with artemether; lumefantrine due to the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if entrectinib must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Enzalutamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of artemether with enzalutamide is contraindicated due to decreases in artemether plasma concentrations which may result in loss of antimalarial efficacy. Artemether is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased exposures to artemether and dihydroartemisinin (DHA, metabolite of artemether) by 89% and 85%, respectively. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lumefantrine with enzalutamide is contraindicated due to decreases in lumefantrine plasma concentrations which may result in loss of antimalarial efficacy. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased exposure to lumefantrine by 68%.
eriBULin: (Major) The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be avoided with artemether; lumefantrine include eribulin. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as artemether; lumefantrine must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether and erythromycin due to the increased potential of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if erythromycin must be used with or after artemether treatment. Additionally, erythromycin is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and artemether is a substrate of CYP3A4; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased concentrations of artemether. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumefantrine and erythromycin due to the increased potential of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if erythromycin must be used with or after lumefantrine treatment. Additionally, erythromycin is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and lumefantrine is a substrate of CYP3A4; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased concentrations of lumefantrine.
Escitalopram: (Major) Escitalopram has been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration with other drugs that have a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as artemether; lumefantrine, should be done with caution and close monitoring. In addition, Aatemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and escitalopram is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased escitalopram concentrations. (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and escitalopram is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased escitalopram concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) In vivo studies suggest eslicarbazepine is an inducer of CYP3A4. Both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., levonorgestrel). Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives, oral contraceptives, and progestin contraceptives (i.e., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal treatments, including progestin-only contraceptives (e.g., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended when norethindrone is used for birth control. Women receiving norethindrone hormone replacement or contraceptives with artemether; lumefantrine should be instructed to report any breakthrough bleeding or other adverse effects to their prescribers.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., progesterone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives, oral contraceptives, and progestin contraceptives (i.e., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal treatments, including progestin-only contraceptives (e.g., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended when norethindrone is used for birth control. Women receiving norethindrone hormone replacement or contraceptives with artemether; lumefantrine should be instructed to report any breakthrough bleeding or other adverse effects to their prescribers.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., norgestrel). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives, oral contraceptives, and progestin contraceptives (i.e., norgestrel, progesterone, etonogestrel, levonorgestrel, medroxyprogesterone, and norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives, oral contraceptives, and progestin contraceptives (i.e., norgestrel, progesterone, etonogestrel, levonorgestrel, medroxyprogesterone, and norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC, Cmax, Cmin) of artemether, a CYP3A4 substrate, are reduced when administered concurrently with etravirine, a CYP3A4 inducer. Although dose adjustments are not required, concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for decreased antimalarial efficacy. (Major) Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC, Cmax, Cmin) of lumefantrine, a CYP3A4 substrate, are reduced when administered concurrently with etravirine, a CYP3A4 inducer. Although dose adjustments are not required, concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for decreased antimalarial efficacy.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Concomitant use of fedratinib with artemether; lumefantrine may result in increased serum concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine. Artemether and lumefantrine are substrates of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; fedratinib is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with QT prolongation. If possible avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine and fingolimod. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility after the first fingolimod dose is advised for patients taking QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsades de pointes. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of torsades de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and flecainide is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased flecainide concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as flecainide should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if flecainide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. (Major) Concurrent use of flecainide and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if flecainide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Flecainide, a Class IC antiarrhythmic, is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP; although, the increase in QT interval is largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide. Additionally, artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and flecainide is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased flecainide concentrations.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant administration of fluconazole and lumefantrine is contraindicated. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and is contraindicated for use with other drugs that both prolong the QT interval and are CYP3A4 substrates, such as lumefantrine. Coadministration of fluconazole with lumefantrine may result in elevated plasma concentrations of lumefantrine, causing an increased risk for adverse events, such as QT prolongation. (Contraindicated) The concomitant administration of fluconazole and artemether is contraindicated. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and is contraindicated for use with other drugs that both prolong the QT interval and are CYP3A4 substrates, such as artemether. Coadministration of fluconazole with artemether may result in elevated plasma concentrations of artemether as well.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fluoxetine and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with QT interval prolongation. (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and fluoxetine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased fluoxetine concentrations. Additionally, lumefantrine is a substrate and fluoxetine is an inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, concomitant use may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Concurrent use of fluphenazine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if fluphenazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Fluphenazine, a phenothiazine, is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with QT prolongation and should be avoided if possible in combination with other QT prolonging drugs, such as fluvoxamine. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine. Consider ECG monitoring if other QT prolonging drugs must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. In addition, artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A substrates and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor while lumefantrine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and fluvoxamine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Concomitant use may lead to increased artemether; lumefantrine or fluvoxamine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and fosamprenavir is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased fosamprenavir concentrations. Additionally, artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and fosamprenavir is an inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, concomitant use may lead to increased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as artemether. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment. (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as lumefantrine. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of phenytoin and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Phenytoin is an inducer of CYP3A4 and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if fostemsavir must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation. (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if fostemsavir must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if gemifloxacin be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher. (Major) Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher. Consider ECG monitoring if gemifloxacin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gemtuzumab ozogamicin with artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with QT interval prolongation.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if gilteritinib must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Both artemether; lumefantrine and gilteritinib have been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose. (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with artemether due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Artemether is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether with goserelin if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if goserelin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumefantrine with goserelin if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if goserelin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Concurrent use of granisetron and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if granisetron must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Both granisetron and artemether; lumefantrine are associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during artemether treatment due to the risk for increased artemether exposure and adverse reactions. Artemether is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during lumefantrine treatment due to the risk for increased lumefantrine exposure and adverse reactions. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be avoided with artemether; lumefantrine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if halogenated anesthetics must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Haloperidol: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor of and haloperidol is partially metabolized by the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased haloperidol concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as haloperidol, should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if haloperidol must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Histrelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether with histrelin if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if histrelin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumefantrine with histrelin if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if histrelin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with artemether; lumefantrine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of artemether; lumefantrine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If artemether; lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Artemether; lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with artemether; lumefantrine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of artemether; lumefantrine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If artemether; lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Artemether; lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with artemether; lumefantrine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of artemether; lumefantrine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If artemether; lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Artemether; lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine and hydroxychloroquine due to the risk of increased QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine and hydroxychloroquine due to the risk of increased QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of hydroxyzine and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Monitor ECG for QT prolongation if coadministration is required. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with QT interval prolongation. Postmarketing data indicate that hydroxyzine causes QT prolongation and TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if ibutilide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with artemether, a CYP3A substrate, as artemether toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib. (Moderate) Coadministration of idelalisib with artemether; lumefantrine may increase the concentrations of artemether and lumefantrine resulting in an increased incidence of adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation). Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A substrates.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of iloperidone and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the iloperidone dose by one-half and consider ECG monitoring. If artemether; lumefantrine is discontinued, increase the iloperidone dose to the previous level. Increased iloperidone exposure may occur with concurrent use. Iloperidone is a CYP2D6 substrate that has been associated with QT prolongation. Artemether; lumefantrine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor that has also been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration of other strong CYP2D6 inhibitors increased mean steady-state peak concentrations of iloperidone and its metabolite P88, by up to 3-fold, and decreased mean steady-state peak concentrations of its metabolite P95 by one-half.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Imatinib, STI-571 is a substrate/inhibitor and artemether a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Imatinib, STI-571 is a substrate/inhibitor and lumefantrine a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation.
Imipramine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with QT interval prolongation.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with artemether; lumefantrine may result in increased serum concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine. Artemether and lumefantrine are substrates of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be avoided with artemether; lumefantrine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if halogenated anesthetics must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Administering artemether with isoniazid may result in elevated artemether plasma concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation. Artemether is a substrate of CYP3A; isoniazid is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Administering lumefantrine with isoniazid may result in elevated lumefantrine plasma concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation. Lumefantrine is a substrate of CYP3A; isoniazid is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Caution is advised when administering itraconazole with drugs that are known to prolong that QT interval and are metabolized by CYP3A4, such as lumefantrine. Both lumefantrine and itraconazole are associated with QT prolongation; coadministration may increase this risk. In addition, coadministration of itraconazole (a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor) with lumefantrine (a CYP3A4 substrate) may result in elevated lumefantrine plasma concentrations. No dosage adjustments are required by the manufacturer, but patients should be monitored for adverse events, including QT prolongation. (Major) Caution is advised when administering itraconazole with drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval and are metabolized by CYP3A4, such as artemether. Both artemether and itraconazole are associated with QT prolongation; coadministration may increase this risk. In addition, coadministration of itraconazole (a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor) with artemether (a CYP3A4 substrate) may result in elevated artemether plasma concentrations. No dosage adjustments are required by the manufacturer, but patients should be monitored for adverse events, including QT prolongation.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with artemether; lumefantrine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and artemether due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Artemether is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole (single dose) with artemether has resulted in a moderate increase in artemether and DHA (active metabolite) exposure. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and lumefantrine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole (single dose) with lumefantrine has resulted in moderately increased lumefantrine exposure.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concurrent use of artemether; lumefantrine and clarithromycin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if clarithromycin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of clarithromycin has resulted in prolongation of the QT interval and TdP. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. In addition, clarithromycin is an inhibitor and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether with lapatinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to treatment. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumefantrine with lapatinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to treatment. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Administering artemether with larotrectinib may result in elevated artemether plasma concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation. Artemether is a substrate of CYP3A; larotrectinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Administering lumefantrine with larotrectinib may result in elevated lumefantrine plasma concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation. Lumefantrine is a substrate of CYP3A; larotrectinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with artemether; lumefantrine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, ECG monitoring is recommended during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with artemether due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval and should be avoided in combination with other QT prolonging drugs. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with lumefantrine due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval and should be avoided in combination with other QT prolonging drugs.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A moderate increase in the plasma concentration of artemether may occur if given concurrently with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. No dosage adjustments are required; however, due to the potential for increased concentrations of artemether which could lead to QT prolongation, these drugs should be administered together with caution. Artemether is metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) A moderate increase in the plasma concentration of lumefantrine may occur if given concurrently with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. No dosage adjustments are required; however, due to the potential for increased concentrations of lumefantrine which could lead to QT prolongation, these drugs should be administered together with caution. Lumefantrine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Leuprolide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether with leuprolide if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if leuprolide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumefantrine with leuprolide if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if leuprolide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and artemether due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Artemether is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole (single dose) with artemether has resulted in a moderate increase in artemether and DHA (active metabolite) exposure. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and lumefantrine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole (single dose) with lumefantrine has resulted in moderately increased lumefantrine exposure.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., levonorgestrel). Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., levonorgestrel). Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., levonorgestrel). Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., levonorgestrel). Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Lithium: (Major) Lithium should be avoided with artemether; lumefantrine. Lithium has been associated with QT prolongation. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if other QT prolonging drugs must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Lofexidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lofexidine and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and other serious adverse effects. Monitor ECG for QT prolongation and monitor for orthostatic hypotension and bradycardia if coadministration is required. Coadministration may increase lofexidine exposure. Lofexidine is a CYP2D6 substrate that prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP). Artemether; lumefantrine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor associated with QT interval prolongation. Coadministration with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the lofexidine AUC by 28%.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Due to the potential for increased concentrations of lumefantrine which could lead to QT prolongation, lonafarnib should be used cautiously with artemether; lumefantrine. No dosage adjustment of artemether; lumefantrine is necessary. Lonafarnib is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and artemether is a substrate of this isoenzyme. In a drug interaction study, administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a moderate increase in exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Both drugs are associated with QT prolongation. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Both drugs are associated with QT prolongation. (Major) Ritonavir is a substrate, potent inhibitor, and inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, depending on the activity of the coadministered drug. Both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased or decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation due to increased drug concentrations, or loss of antimalarial activity depending on the artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Consider ECG monitoring if ritonavir must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. (Major) Ritonavir is a substrate, potent inhibitor, and inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, depending on the activity of the coadministered drug. Both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased or decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation due to increased drug concentrations, or loss of antimalarial activity depending on the artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Consider ECG monitoring if ritonavir must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lumacaftor; ivacaftor and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Coadministration is expected to result in subtherapeutic artemether; lumefantrine serum concentrations and a possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Artemether; lumefantrine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and is also a substrate of CYP2B6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data also suggest that lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce CYP2B6 and CYP2C19, and induce and/or inhibit CYP2C9.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lumacaftor; ivacaftor and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Coadministration is expected to result in subtherapeutic artemether; lumefantrine serum concentrations and a possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Artemether; lumefantrine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and is also a substrate of CYP2B6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data also suggest that lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce CYP2B6 and CYP2C19, and induce and/or inhibit CYP2C9.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as artemether; lumefantrine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Artemether is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as lumefantrine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., medroxyprogesterone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Mefloquine: (Major) Mefloquine use immediately prior to lumefantrine treatment may decrease lumefantrine exposure resulting in suboptimal lumefantrine concentrations. Mefloquine causes a reduction in bile production, which is necessary for adequate lumefantrine absorption (see Pharmacokinetics). Sequential oral administration of mefloquine 12 hours prior to initiating the artemether; lumefantrine 6-dose regimen had no statistically significant effects of artemether or on the artemether/dihydroartemisinin (DHA, metabolite of artemether) ratio in 14 healthy volunteers; however, there was a 30% reduction in the Cmax and 40% reduction in the AUC of lumefantrine. Additionally, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, such as mefloquine, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided.
Methadone: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor of and methadone is partially metabolized by the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased methadone concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as methadone, should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if methadone must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Methohexital: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Metoclopramide: (Major) Due to the risk of increased metoclopramide plasma concentrations and extrapyramidal adverse reactions, dose adjustments of oral metoclopramide are recommended when administered in combination with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors. In patients with gastroesophageal reflux receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs), the recommended dose of metoclopramide is 5 mg PO four times daily or 10 mg PO three times daily. In patients with diabetic gastroparesis receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs), the recommended dose of metoclopramide is 5 mg PO four times daily times daily. Metoclopramide is a substrate of CYP2D6 and lumefantrine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and metoprolol is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased metoprolol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and metoprolol is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased metoprolol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mexiletine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and mexiletine is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased mexiletine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and artemether if possible; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If use of midostaurin and artemether; lumefantrine is required, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received artemether; lumefantrine. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and artemether; lumefantrine if possible; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If use of midostaurin and artemether; lumefantrine is required, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received artemether; lumefantrine.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid use of mifepristone with artemether; lumefantrine if possible due to increased artemether; lumefantrine exposure and the potential for resultant drug toxicity, including QT prolongation. ECG monitoring is advised if use of drugs that prolong the QT interval is medically required. Both artemether; lumefantrine and mifepristone are associated with QT prolongation. Mifepristone, when used chronically for hormonal conditions such as Cushing's syndrome, is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and is expected to significantly increase the exposure to CYP3A4 substrates, including both artemether and lumefantrine. (Moderate) Avoid use of mifepristone with artemether; lumefantrine if possible due to increased aremether; lumefantrine exposure and the potential for resultant drug toxicity, including QT prolongation. ECG monitoring is advised if use of drugs that prolong the QT interval is medically required. Both artemether; lumefantrine and mifepristone are associated with QT prolongation. Mifepristone, when used chronically for hormonal conditions such as Cushing's syndrome, is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and is expected to significantly increase the exposure to CYP3A4 substrates, including both artemether and lumefantrine.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with QT prolongation and should be avoided if possible in combination with other QT prolonging drugs, such as mirtazapine. Consider ECG monitoring if other QT prolonging drugs must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Cases of QT prolongation, TdP, ventricular tachycardia, and sudden death have been reported during postmarketing use of mirtazapine. The majority of reports have occurred in the setting of mirtazapine overdose or in patients with other risk factors for QT prolongation, including concomitant use of other medications associated with QT prolongation. Because llumefantrine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and mirtazapine is partially metabolized by CYP2D6, coadministration may lead to increased mirtazapine concentrations. Monitor for mirtazapine-related side effects such as dizziness, somnolence, xerostomia, and constipation. (Major) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of mitotane and artemether is contraindicated. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and artemether is a substrate of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer, rifampin, in 6 HIV and tuberculosis co-infected adults caused reductions in the AUC of artemether, dihydroartemisinin (metabolite of artemether), and lumefantrine by 89%, 85%, and 68%, respectively. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of mitotane and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer, rifampin, in 6 HIV and tuberculosis co-infected adults caused reductions in the AUC of artemether, dihydroartemisinin (metabolite of artemether), and lumefantrine by 89%, 85%, and 68%, respectively.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Modafinil: (Major) Modafinil is a substrate/inducer and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concurrent use of artemether; lumefantrine and moxifloxacin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if moxifloxacin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Moxifloxacin has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Additionally, post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including TdP, usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Nafcillin: (Major) Nafcillin is an inducer and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Nebivolol: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nebivolol and artemether; lumefantrine. Nebivolol is metabolized by CYP2D6. Although data are lacking, CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as lumefantrine, could potentially increase nebivolol plasma concentrations via CYP2D6 inhibition; the clinical significance of this potential interaction is unknown, but an increase in adverse effects is possible. If these drugs are coadministered, patients should be monitored for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Nefazodone is a substrate/inhibitor and artemether a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Nefazodone is a substrate/inhibitor and lumefantrine a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Nelfinavir is a substrate/inhibitor and artemether a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Nelfinavir is a substrate/inhibitor and lumefantrine a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine should be used with caution with netupitant; palonosetron. Lumefantrine is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and palonosetron is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme. Coadministration may lead to increased palonosetron concentrations and serotonin-related side effects.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy or increased toxicity of artemether; lumefantrine if coadministration with nevirapine is necessary. Concomitant use may alter the exposure of artemether and lumefantrine. Artemether and lumefantrine are CYP3A substrates and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with nevirapine decreased artemether exposure by 67% to 72% and lumefantrine exposure by 25% to 58%. Another study reported a 50% to 56% increase in lumefantrine exposure.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Nicardipine is a substrate/inhibitor and artemether a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Nicardipine is a substrate/inhibitor and lumefantrine a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib with other agents that prolong the QT interval, such as artemether; lumefantrine. Additionally, nilotinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate of CYP3A4; administering these drugs together may result in increased artemether; lumefantrine levels. If the use of artemether; lumefantrine is necessary, hold nilotinib therapy. If these drugs are used together, consider an artemether; lumefantrine dose reduction and monitor patients for toxicity (e.g., QT interval prolongation).
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Ritonavir is a substrate, potent inhibitor, and inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, depending on the activity of the coadministered drug. Both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased or decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation due to increased drug concentrations, or loss of antimalarial activity depending on the artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Consider ECG monitoring if ritonavir must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. (Major) Ritonavir is a substrate, potent inhibitor, and inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, depending on the activity of the coadministered drug. Both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased or decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation due to increased drug concentrations, or loss of antimalarial activity depending on the artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Consider ECG monitoring if ritonavir must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives, oral contraceptives, and progestin contraceptives (i.e., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal treatments, including progestin-only contraceptives (e.g., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended when norethindrone is used for birth control. Women receiving norethindrone hormone replacement or contraceptives with artemether; lumefantrine should be instructed to report any breakthrough bleeding or other adverse effects to their prescribers.
Norethindrone: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives, oral contraceptives, and progestin contraceptives (i.e., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal treatments, including progestin-only contraceptives (e.g., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended when norethindrone is used for birth control. Women receiving norethindrone hormone replacement or contraceptives with artemether; lumefantrine should be instructed to report any breakthrough bleeding or other adverse effects to their prescribers.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives, oral contraceptives, and progestin contraceptives (i.e., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal treatments, including progestin-only contraceptives (e.g., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended when norethindrone is used for birth control. Women receiving norethindrone hormone replacement or contraceptives with artemether; lumefantrine should be instructed to report any breakthrough bleeding or other adverse effects to their prescribers.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives, oral contraceptives, and progestin contraceptives (i.e., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal treatments, including progestin-only contraceptives (e.g., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended when norethindrone is used for birth control. Women receiving norethindrone hormone replacement or contraceptives with artemether; lumefantrine should be instructed to report any breakthrough bleeding or other adverse effects to their prescribers.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended.
Norgestrel: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., norgestrel). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and olanzapine is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased olanzapine concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as olanzapine should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if olanzapine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and olanzapine is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased olanzapine concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as olanzapine should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if olanzapine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. (Major) Avoid coadministration of fluoxetine and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with QT interval prolongation. (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and fluoxetine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased fluoxetine concentrations. Additionally, lumefantrine is a substrate and fluoxetine is an inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, concomitant use may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and olanzapine is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased olanzapine concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as olanzapine should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if olanzapine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and lumefantrine is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and lumefantrine may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If lumefantrine is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP2D6 substrate and lumefantrine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Rifabutin is a substrate/inducer and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Coadministration may decrease the exposure and potential efficacy of lumefantrine. Lumefantrine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Oritavancin weakly induces CYP3A4. If these drugs are administered concurrently, monitor the patient for signs of lack of efficacy. (Moderate) Coadministration of oritavancin and artemether; lumefantrine may result in increases or decreases in artemether exposure and may increase side effects or decrease efficacy of artemether. Artemether is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4/5, but is also metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP2C9. Oritavancin weakly induces CYP3A4, while weakly inhibiting CYP2C19 and CYP2C9. If these drugs are administered concurrently, monitor the patient for signs of toxicity or lack of efficacy.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Monitor ECG for QT prolongation if coadministration is required. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with QT interval prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation; an interruption of osimertinib therapy and dose reduction may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Artemether is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Concomitant use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumefantrine with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation; an interruption of osimertinib therapy and dose reduction may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Artemether is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Concomitant use may increase the risk of QT prolongation.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of oxaliplatin and artemether if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If unavoidable, monitor ECGs and electrolytes periodically during therapy; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in post-marketing experience. (Major) Avoid coadministration of oxaliplatin and lumefantrine if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If unavoidable, monitor ECGs and electrolytes periodically during therapy; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in post-marketing experience.
OXcarbazepine: (Major) Oxcarbazepine is an inducer and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Ozanimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with ozanimod due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring and consultation with cardiology if ozanimod must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with ozanimod due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if ozanimod must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval and should be avoided in combination with other QT prolonging drugs. However, if coadministration is necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential. Consider ECG monitoring if paliperidone must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Palonosetron: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine should be used with caution with netupitant; palonosetron. Lumefantrine is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and palonosetron is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme. Coadministration may lead to increased palonosetron concentrations and serotonin-related side effects.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with panobinostat include artemether; lumefantrine.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with lumefantrine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase paroxetine exposure. Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and lumefantrine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Pasireotide: (Major) Coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine and pasireotide may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if pasireotide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of pazopanib and other drugs that prolong the QT interval is not advised; pazopanib and artemether; lumefantrine have been reported to prolong the QT interval. If pazopanib and artemether; lumefantrine must be continued, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if pazopanib must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. In addition, pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate for CYP2D6, while artemether; lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor of CYP2D6. Coadministration may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of both drugs. Use caution when concurrent administration of artemether; lumefantrine and pazopanib is necessary.
penicillAMINE: (Major) Do not use penicillamine concurrently with antimalarials due to an increased risk of severe hematologic and renal adverse reactions.
Pentamidine: (Major) Pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with pentamidine include artemether; lumefantrine. Consider ECG monitoring if pentamidine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and pentamidine is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased pentamidine concentrations and drug toxicity.
PENTobarbital: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor of and perphenazine is partially metabolized by the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased perphenazine concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as perphenazine, should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if perphenazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. (Minor) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor of and perphenazine is partially metabolized by the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased perphenazine concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as perphenazine, should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if perphenazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
PHENobarbital: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Phenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of phenytoin and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Phenytoin is an inducer of CYP3A4 and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin should be avoided in combination with artemether; lumefantrine. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if other QT prolonging drugs must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because of the potential for TdP, use of lumefantrine with pimozide is contraindicated.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with artemether; lumefantrine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if pitolisant must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking artemether; lumefantrine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and consider ECG monitoring. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of posaconazole and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated due to the risk of life threatening arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of both artemether and lumefantrine. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated artemether; lumefantrine plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for artemether; lumefantrine-related adverse events, such as QT prolongation. Additionally, posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of TdP; avoid use with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval and are metabolized through CYP3A, such as artemether; lumefantrine. (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of posaconazole and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated due to the risk of life threatening arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). Posaconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of both artemether and lumefantrine. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated artemether; lumefantrine plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for artemether; lumefantrine-related adverse events, such as QT prolongation. Additionally, posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of TdP; avoid use with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval and are metabolized through CYP3A, such as artemether; lumefantrine.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Procainamide: (Major) Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if procainamide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Concurrent use of prochlorperazine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is considered necessary, and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmia, then close monitoring is essential. Consider ECG monitoring if prochlorperazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Phenothiazines, such as prochlorperazine, have also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Progesterone: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including progestin contraceptives (i.e., progesterone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Promethazine carries a possible risk of QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with promethazine include artemether; lumefantrine. Additionally, lumefantrine is an inhibitor and promethazine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased promethazine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, such as sedation.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Promethazine carries a possible risk of QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with promethazine include artemether; lumefantrine. Additionally, lumefantrine is an inhibitor and promethazine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased promethazine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, such as sedation. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with lumefantrine may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Lumefantrine inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Promethazine carries a possible risk of QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with promethazine include artemether; lumefantrine. Additionally, lumefantrine is an inhibitor and promethazine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased promethazine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, such as sedation.
Propafenone: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and propafenone is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased propafenone concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as propafenone, should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if propafenone must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and propranolol is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased propranolol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Protriptyline: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Pyrimethamine: (Moderate) Other antimalarial agents, such as pyrimethamine, should not be given with artemether; lumefantrine unless there is no other treatment option because limited safety data are available.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concurrent use of quinine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if quinine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Quinine has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of TdP. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Further, concentrations of both drugs may be elevated with concomitant use. Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and quinine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased quinine concentrations. Additionally, artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and quinine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Rabies Vaccine: (Major) If administered concurrently, antimalarials can impair the immunologic response to the rabies vaccine, thereby, decreasing its protective effect. If possible, administration of antimalarials should be avoided during use of the rabies vaccine for postexposure prophylaxis. When antimalarials must be administered to persons also receiving the rabies vaccine for postexposure prophylaxis, a serum rabies antibody titer should be obtained on day 14 (day of the 4th vaccination) to ensure an acceptable antibody response has been induced.
Ranolazine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and ranolazine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased ranolazine concentrations. Additionally, artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ranolazine is an inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, concomitant use may lead to increased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as ranolazine should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if ranolazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in artemether-related adverse reactions, such as QT prolongation, if concomitant use of relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase artemether exposure. Artemether is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of artemether and dihydroartemisinin (an active metabolite of artemether) by 2.3- and 1.5-fold respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lumefantrine-related adverse reactions, such as QT prolongation, if concomitant use of relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lumefantrine exposure. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of lumefantrine by 1.6-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with relugolix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if relugolix must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including non-oral combination contraceptives, oral contraceptives, and progestin contraceptives (i.e., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended. (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal treatments, including progestin-only contraceptives (e.g., norethindrone). This may be due to a CYP3A4 interaction. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of birth control is recommended when norethindrone is used for birth control. Women receiving norethindrone hormone replacement or contraceptives with artemether; lumefantrine should be instructed to report any breakthrough bleeding or other adverse effects to their prescribers. (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with relugolix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if relugolix must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with artemether due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Systemic exposure of artemether may also be increased resulting in an increase in artemether-related adverse reactions. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Artemether is a CYP3A4 substrate that has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased artemether exposure by 2.3-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with lumefantrine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Systemic exposure of lumefantrine may also be increased resulting in increase in lumefantrine-related adverse reactions. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate that is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumefantrine exposure by 1.6-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with artemether due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Systemic exposure of artemether may also be increased resulting in an increase in artemether-related adverse reactions. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Artemether is a CYP3A4 substrate that has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased artemether exposure by 2.3-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with lumefantrine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Systemic exposure of lumefantrine may also be increased resulting in increase in lumefantrine-related adverse reactions. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate that is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumefantrine exposure by 1.6-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Rifabutin is a substrate/inducer and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
rifAMPin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of rifampin and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Rifampin is a potent inducer of CYP3A4 and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Coadministration in 6 HIV and tuberculosis co-infected adults caused reductions in the AUC of artemether, dihydroartemisinin (metabolite of artemether), and lumefantrine by 89%, 85%, and 68%, respectively.
Rifapentine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of rifapentine and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the AUC of artemether and dihydroartemisinin (metabolite of artemether) by 89% and 85%, respectively. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of rifapentine and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Rifapentine is a potent inducer of CYP3A4 and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Concurrent use of rilpivirine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if rilpivirine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation. (Major) Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as artemether. In addition to avoiding drug interactions, the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP) can be reduced by avoiding the use of QT prolonging drugs in patients at substantial risk for TdP. Consider ECG monitoring if rilpivirine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
risperiDONE: (Major) Concomitant use of drugs with a possible risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, including artemether; lumefantrine and risperidone, should be avoided if possible. Consider ECG monitoring if risperidone must be used with artemether; lumefantrine.
Ritonavir: (Major) Ritonavir is a substrate, potent inhibitor, and inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, depending on the activity of the coadministered drug. Both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased or decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation due to increased drug concentrations, or loss of antimalarial activity depending on the artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Consider ECG monitoring if ritonavir must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. (Major) Ritonavir is a substrate, potent inhibitor, and inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, depending on the activity of the coadministered drug. Both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased or decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation due to increased drug concentrations, or loss of antimalarial activity depending on the artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Consider ECG monitoring if ritonavir must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Concurrent use of romidepsin and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If these drugs must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Both romidepsin and artemether; lumefantrine are associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of saquinavir boosted with ritonavir and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided if possible due to the potential for life threatening arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes TdP). Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of both components of artemether; lumefantrine. During coadministration, elevated serum concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine can occur; thus, caution is warrented due to the potential for increased side effects, including QT prolongation. Additionally, saquinavir boosted with ritonavir causes dose-dependent QT and PR prolongation; if possible, avoid use with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as artemether; lumefantrine. If no alternative therapy is acceptable, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and follow recommended ECG monitoring. (Major) The concurrent use of saquinavir boosted with ritonavir and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided if possible due to the potential for life threatening arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of both components of artemether; lumefantrine. During coadministration, elevated serum concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine can occur; thus, caution is warrented due to the potential for increased side effects, including QT prolongation. Additionally, saquinavir boosted with ritonavir causes dose-dependent QT and PR prolongation; if possible, avoid use with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as artemether; lumefantrine. If no alternative therapy is acceptable, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and follow recommended ECG monitoring (see Saquinavir Contraindications).
Secobarbital: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Although no formal drug interaction studies have been performed, the manufacturer states that artemether; lumefantrine may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, including oral contraceptives. This may be due to a CYP3A interaction. Artemether; lumefantrine is a substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme. Additional use of a non-hormonal method of contraception is recommended.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with selpercatinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Monitor ECGs frequently if selpercatinib must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be avoided with artemether; lumefantrine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if halogenated anesthetics must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of siponimod and artemether; lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with QT interval prolongation.
Solifenacin: (Major) Solifenacin should be avoided with artemether; lumefantrine. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsades de pointes (TdP) has been reported with post-marketing use, although causality was not determined. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if solifenacin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with artemether; lumefantrine due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Both drugs are associated with QTc prolongation. (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with artemether; lumefantrine due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. Both drugs are associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. St. John's wort is an inducer of CYP3A4 and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether with sunitinib due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider ECG monitoring. Sunitinib can cause dose-dependent QT prolongation, which may increase the risk for ventricular arrhythmias, including torsades de points (TdP). Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Concurrent use of tacrolimus and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If tacrolimus must be coadministered with substrates and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4 that also have the potential to prolong the QT interval, such as artemether; lumefantrine, consider reducing the tacrolimus dose, closely monitor tacrolimus whole blood concentrations, and monitor for QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if tacrolimus must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor such as artemether; lumefantrine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Telavancin: (Major) Concurrent use of telavancin and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if telavancin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Both telavancin and artemether; lumefantrine are associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and tetrabenazine is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tetrabenazine concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tetrabenazine should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tetrabenazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine and thioridazine is contraindicated. Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and thioridazine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased thioridazine concentrations. Furthermore, thioridazine is contraindicated with CYP2D6 inhibitors due to the potential for QT prolongation. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Timolol: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and timolol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased timolol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Tipranavir is a substrate and a potent inhibitor and artemether a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Tipranavir is a substrate and a potent inhibitor and lumefantrine a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation.
Tolterodine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and tolterodine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tolterodine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as tolterodine, should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tolterodine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumefantrine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
traMADol: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and tramadol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tramadol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and tramadol is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tramadol concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Concurrent use of trifluoperazine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if trifluoperazine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Trifluoperazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Trimipramine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine is an inhibitor and the tricyclic antidepressants are substrates of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased tricyclic antidepressant concentrations. Furthermore, although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine with drugs that may prolong the QT interval such as tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if tricyclic antidepressants must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Triptorelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether with triptorelin if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if triptorelin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumefantrine with triptorelin if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if triptorelin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Due to the potential for increased concentrations of lumefantrine which could lead to QT prolongation, tucatinib should be used cautiously with artemether; lumefantrine. No dosage adjustment of artemether; lumefantrine is necessary. Tucatinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and artemether is a substrate of this isoenzyme. In a drug interaction study, administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a moderate increase in exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine. (Moderate) Due to the potential for increased concentrations of lumefantrine which could lead to QT prolongation, tucatinib should be used cautiously with artemether; lumefantrine. No dosage adjustment of artemether; lumefantrine is necessary. Tucatinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and lumefantrine is a substrate of this isoenzyme. In a drug interaction study, administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a moderate increase in exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine.
Valbenazine: (Major) Consider reducing the dose of valbenazine, based on tolerability, during co-administration with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, such as lumefantrine. QT prolongation is not clinically significant at valbenazine concentrations expected with recommended dosing; however, concentrations of the active metabolite of valbenazine may be higher in patients taking a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and QT prolongation may become clinically significant.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with artemether; lumefantrine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. If vemurafenib and another drug, such as artemether; lumefantrine, that is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Also, artemether is a substrate of CYP2C9 and 3A4, while lumefantrine is a substrate of CYP3A4. Vemurafenib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor and CYP3A4 substrate/inducer. Altered concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine may increase side effects or decrease the potency of the antimicrobial effect. Caution is warranted with coadministration.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of artemether; lumefantrine and voclosporin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if voclosporin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concurrent use of artemether; lumefantrine and clarithromycin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if clarithromycin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of clarithromycin has resulted in prolongation of the QT interval and TdP. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. In addition, clarithromycin is an inhibitor and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voriconazole with artemether due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider ECG monitoring. Systemic exposure of artemether may also be increased resulting in an increase in artemether-related adverse reactions. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with rare cases of torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Artemether is a CYP3A4 substrate that has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased artemether exposure by 2.3-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of voriconazole with lumefantrine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider ECG monitoring. Systemic exposure of lumefantrine may also be increased resulting in an increase in lumefantrine-related adverse reactions. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with rare cases of torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate that has also been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumefantrine exposure by 1.6-fold. No dosage adjustments are required by the manufacturer, but patients should be monitored for adverse events, including QT prolongation.
Vorinostat: (Major) The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, such as vorinostat, coadministration may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if vorinostat must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Concurrent use of lumefantrine and vortioxetine may result in increased plasma concentrations of vortioxetine due to CYP2D6 inhibition by artemether; lumefantrine. Because the primary isoenzyme involved in the metabolim of vortioxetine is CYP2D6, the manufacturer recommends a reduction in the vortioxetine dose by one-half during co-administration with strong inhibitors of CYP2D6. The vortioxetine dose should be increased to the original level when the CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Zafirlukast is a inhibitor and artemether a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased artemether concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects. (Moderate) Zafirlukast is a inhibitor and lumefantrine a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects, including increased potentiation of QT prolongation.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval and should be avoided in combination with other QT prolonging drugs. Consider ECG monitoring if other QT prolonging drugs must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

The overall adverse reaction profile of artemether; lumefantrine was similar to comparators in clinical studies. Discontinuation of artemether; lumefantrine due to adverse reactions occurred in 1.1% of patients, including 0.2% of adults (defined as > 16 years old) and 1.6% of children (defined as <= 16 years old).

ataxia, dizziness, headache, hyperreflexia, hypoesthesia, nystagmus, tinnitus, tremor, vertigo


In clinical trials of artemether; lumefantrine, headache occurred in 56% of adult patients and 13% of pediatric patients. Dizziness was reported in 39% of adults and 4% of children, and vertigo was reported in 3% of adults. Ataxia, clonus, fine motor delay, hyperreflexia, hypoesthesia, nystagmus, tinnitus, gait disturbance, and tremor occurred in < 3% of all patients. In animal models, intramuscular injections of artemisinin derivatives, including artemether, have been associated with neurotoxicity mainly involving hearing loss and balance disturbances due to lesions in specific brain nuclei involving the auditory and vestibular pathways. Human studies have shown that adverse events of the nervous system and of the ear and labyrinth systems were transient and reversible most of the time.


abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, hypokalemia, nausea, peptic ulcer, vomiting


Anorexia was reported in 40% of adults and 13% of children during pivotal clinical trials of artemether; lumefantrine. Nausea was reported in 26% of adults and 5% of children, while vomiting occurred in 17% of adult patients and in 18% of pediatric patients. Abdominal pain was noted in 17% of adults and 8% of children, while diarrhea was seen in 7% of adults and 8% of children. Constipation, dyspepsia, dysphagia, hypokalemia, and peptic ulcer occurred in < 3% of all patients.


asthenia, chills, fatigue, fever, malaise


Asthenia occurred in 38% of adult patients and 5% of pediatric patients during pivotal clinical trials of artemether; lumefantrine. Pyrexia (fever) was noted in 25% of adults and 29% of children. Chills were reported in 23% of adults and 5% of pediatric patients. Studies noted fatigue in 17% of adults and 3% of children, while malaise was noted in 3% of adults only.


arthralgia, back pain, myalgia


Arthralgia (34% of adults and 3% of children) and myalgia (32% of adults and 3% of children) were noted in clinical trials of artemether; lumefantrine. Back pain was reported in < 3% of all patients.


agitation, insomnia


In trials of artemether; lumefantrine, sleep disorders (various changes in sleep patterns) occurred in 22% and insomnia occurred in 5% of adult patients, respectively, but were not reported in children. Agitation and mood swings were noted in less than 3% of all patients.


palpitations, QT prolongation


Palpitations occurred in 18% of adult patients during artemether; lumefantrine clinical trials. Many antimalarial agents, including artemether; lumefantrine have been associated with QT prolongation. In clinical trials conducted in children, no patient had QTcF > 500 msec; > 5% of these children had an increase in QTcF of over 60 msec. In clinical trials conducted in adults, QTcF prolongation of > 500 msec was reported in 3 (0.3%) of patients. Over 6% of treated adults had a QTcF increase of over 60 msec from baseline.


hepatomegaly


Hepatomegaly occurred in 9% of adult patients 6% of pediatric patients during artemether; lumefantrine clinical trials.


anemia, eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, splenomegaly, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis


In clinical trials of artemether; lumefantrine, splenomegaly was reported in 9% of adults and children. Anemia occurred in 4% of adult patients and 9% of pediatric patients. Eosinophilia, leukopenia, leukocytosis, abnormal lymphocyte morphology, decreased hematocrit, thrombocytosis, and thrombocytopenia were noted in less than 3% of all patients. Cases of delayed hemolytic anemia have been reported, mostly when artemether; lumefantrine has been used for the treatment of severe malaria in patients initially treated with parenteral artesunate. Artemether; lumefantrine is not FDA-approved for the treatment of severe malaria.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bullous rash, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria


Rash (unspecified) has been noted in 3% of adult and pediatric patients during artemether; lumefantrine clinical trials. Pruritus occurred in 4% of adult patients only. Hypersensitivity reactions, including urticaria (<3% of patients), anaphylaxis (anaphylactoid reactions),  angioedema, and serious skin eruptions (bullous rash) have been noted in post-marketing experience.


cough


In clinical trials of artemether; lumefantrine, cough has been reported in 6% of adult patients and 23% of pediatric patients. Asthma and pharyngo-laryngeal pain occurred in < 3% of all patients.


conjunctivitis, infection, influenza, pharyngitis, rhinitis


Infections and infestations were reported in artemether; lumefantrine clinical trials. Malaria (P. falciparum infections) was reported in 3% of adult patients and 17% of pediatric patients. Pharyngitis occurred in 3% of adult patients, while rhinitis occurred in 4% of pediatric patients. Other infectious processes that occurred in < 3% of all patients include conjunctivitis, abscess (including subcutaneous abscess), acrodermatitis, bronchitis, ear infections, gastroenteritis, helminthic infection, hookworm infection, impetigo, influenza, lower/upper respiratory tract infections (including pneumonia), oral herpes, conjunctivitis, and urinary tract infection.


elevated hepatic enzymes


Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported in clinical trials of artemether; lumefantrine. Increased aspartate aminotransferase (AST) occurred in 4% of pediatric patients and < 3% of all patients. Increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was reported in < 3% of all patients.


hematuria, proteinuria


In artemether; lumefantrine clinical trials, hematuria and proteinuria occurred in < 3% of all patients.


infertility


Artemether; lumefantrine may increase the risk of infertility. In animal studies, exposure to artemether; lumefantrine for 2 to 4 weeks resulted in decreased pregnancy rates in female rats. In male rats, exposure for 3 months resulted in abnormal sperm cells, decreased sperm motility, and increased testes weight.


Description

Artemether; lumefantrine is a fixed artemisinin-based combination tablet indicated for the treatment of acute, uncomplicated malaria infections in patients 2 months and older with a bodyweight of at least 5 kg. Both components are blood schizonticides with complementary pharmacokinetics and dissimilar modes of action providing synergistic antimalarial activity, while preventing the development of resistance. Artemether; lumefantrine is effective against both drug-sensitive and drug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum. Artemisinin-based therapies are potent with rapid onset of anti-parasitic activity and are primarily recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO). These regimens are active against all Plasmodium species that infect humans. When artemisinin-based therapies are combined with longer-acting antimalarial agents, such as lumefantrine, shorter courses of therapy are an option.

Mechanism Of Action

Artemether and lumefantrine are blood schizonticides; however, the exact mechanisms of action are unclear. Artemether and lumefantrine are active against the erythrocytic stages of Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax. Both artemether and lumefantrine have been shown to inhibit nucleic acid and protein synthesis. In studies with mixed infections, data indicate that there is rapid clearance of most Plasmodium species from the blood; however, there is no effect on hypnozoites, the liver dormant forms of P. vivax or P. ovale.
 
The antimalarial activity of artemether may involve free radical damage to membrane systems in the parasite during the asexual developmental states. The release of these free radicals may be catalyzed by intraparasitic iron and/or heme. Spectrophotometric studies have shown disruption of the porphyrin ring, likely due to oxidative degradation. Artemether is mostly converted to dihydroartemisinin (DHA), which is an active metabolite that is more effective than the parent drug. A portion of the antimalarial activity of artemether and DHA may result from the production of free radicals resulting from the iron-catalyzed cleavage of the artemisinin endoperoxide bridge in the parasite food vacuole. However, nonspecific oxidative damage may not fully explain the antimalarial effect of the artemisinin class ; other intraparasitic targets may be affected by the theoretical production of carbon-centered free radicals, rather than oxygen free radicals. Additionally, there is gametocytocidal activity that may reduce the rate of gametocyte carriers after successful treatment.
 
The mechanism of lumefantrine is less clear; however, available data suggest that it may inhibit the formation of beta-hematin by forming a complex with hemin. This may inhibit the parasite's ability to detoxify free heme, which is a necessary step after the parasite's degradation of human hemoglobin.
 
Artemether has a rapid onset to control parasitemia and fever; however, the recrudescence rate is high (more than 40%), which is likely due to the drug's short half-life. Combining artemether with lumefantrine (a long-acting agent) increases the cure rate compared to artemether monotherapy. The 28-day cure rate for the 6-dose artemether; lumefantrine regimen was 74.1% to 90.2% in clinical trials.
 
In population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modeling, the area under the curve (AUC) was identified as the key parameter influencing the 28-day cure rate.
 
Strains of P. falciparum with a moderate decrease in susceptibility to artemether or lumefantrine alone can be selected in vitro or in vivo, but not maintained in the case of artemether. Alterations in some genetic regions of P. falciparum [multidrug resistant 1 (pfmdr1), chloroquine resistance transporter (pfcrt), and kelch 13 (K13)] have been reported. The clinical relevance of these findings is not known.

Pharmacokinetics

Artemether; lumefantrine is administered orally as a fixed-dose tablet.
Artemether: Artemether is highly bound to human serum proteins in vitro (95.4%), and its active metabolite, dihydroartemisinin (DHA), is bound to human serum proteins to a lesser extent (47% to 76%). Protein binding to human plasma proteins is linear. Artemether and DHA are cleared from plasma with a half-life of about 2 hours. The biologically active metabolite, DHA, is formed primarily via CYP3A4/5 with lesser contributions from CYP2B6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. After repeated artemether; lumefantrine administration, systemic exposure to artemether significantly decreased, while DHA concentrations increased. The artemether/DHA AUC ratio was 1.2 after a single dose and 0.3 after 6 doses, suggesting possible induction of CYP3A4/5. In 16 volunteers, artemether was not found in the urine after administration, and urinary excretion of DHA amounted to less than 0.01% of the artemether dose.
Lumefantrine: Lumefantrine is highly lipophilic. Lumefantrine is highly bound to human serum proteins in vitro (99.7%). The protein binding to human plasma proteins is linear. The half-life of lumefantrine is 3 to 6 days. Due to this slow elimination, lumefantrine exposure increases after each dose of artemether; lumefantrine and reaches a peak on day 3 of therapy. Lumefantrine is N-debutylated; it is mainly catalyzed by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme to desbutyl-lumefantrine. In 16 volunteers, lumefantrine was not found in the urine after administration.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP3A4
Artemether; lumefantrine is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4 and is contraindicated with the concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inducers can lead to a marked decrease in artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and loss of anti-malarial efficacy. In vitro, lumefantrine significantly inhibits the CYP2D6 isoenzyme at therapeutic concentrations. Coadministration with CYP2D6 substrates may increase plasma concentrations of those substrates.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Artemether: After oral administration of artemether; lumefantrine, artemether is rapidly absorbed, reaching a peak plasma concentration in approximately 2 hours. Food enhances absorption and bioavailability of artemether 2- to 3-fold compared to fasted conditions. Under fed conditions, the artemether mean Cmax is 60 to 83.8 ng/mL and the DHA mean Cmax is 90.4 to 104 ng/mL; the artemether mean AUC is 146 to 259 ng x hr/mL and the DHA mean AUC is 284 to 285 ng x hr/mL.
Lumefantrine: Lumefantrine is highly lipophilic. The absorption is slower and starts after a lag-time of up to 2 hours, reaching a peak plasma concentration approximately 6 to 8 hours after administration. Food enhances absorption and bioavailability of lumefantrine 16-fold as compared to fasted conditions. Under fed conditions, the lumefantrine mean Cmax is 7.38 to 9.8 mcg/mL and the mean AUC is 158 to 243 mcg x hour/mL in adults.


Hepatic Impairment

No specific pharmacokinetic studies have been performed with artemether; lumefantrine in persons with hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

No specific pharmacokinetic studies have been performed with artemether; lumefantrine in persons with renal impairment.

Pediatrics

After administration of a 6-dose regimen, pharmacokinetic studies in pediatric patients with malaria showed that the systemic exposure to artemether; lumefantrine was comparable to that of adults when the drug combination was dosed on a mg/kg body weight basis. The artemether mean Cmax is 174 ng/mL (+/- 145 ng/mL) in pediatric patients weighing 25 to less than 35 kg, 198 ng/mL (+/- 179 ng/mL) in patients weighing 15 to less than 25 kg, and 223 ng/mL (+/- 309 ng/mL) in patients weighing 5 to less than 15 kg. Additionally, the dihydroartemisinin (DHA) mean Cmax is 65.3 ng/mL (+/- 23.6 ng/mL) in patients weighing 25 to less than 35 kg, 79.8 ng/mL (+/- 80.5 ng/mL) in patients weighing 15 to less than 25 kg, and 54.7 ng/mL (+/- 58.9 ng/mL) in patients weighing 5 to less than 15 kg. The lumefantrine mean Cmax is 4.71 to 12.6 mcg/mL and the lumefantrine mean AUC is 372 to 699 mcg x hour/mL in patients weighing 5 to less than 25 kg (information for patients weighing 25 kg or more is not available).

Geriatric

No specific pharmacokinetic studies have been performed with artemether; lumefantrine in persons older than 65 years.

Administration

For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Although patients with acute malaria are frequently intolerant of food, administer artemether; lumefantrine with fluids (particularly drinks containing fats, such as milk or formula) and if possible, with a normal diet as soon as the patient can tolerate food.
If a patient vomits within 1—2 hours of administration, repeat the dose. If the repeat dose is vomited, administer alternative antimalarial therapy.


Oral Solid Formulations


For patients who are unable to swallow the tablets (e.g., infants and children), the tablets may be crushed and mixed with a small amount of water (1 to 2 teaspoons or 5 to 10 mL) in a clean container immediately prior to use. Rinse the container with more water and have patient swallow the contents to ensure correct dosage delivery. The dose should be followed whenever possible by food/drink (e.g., milk, formula, pudding, broth, and porridge). Tablets can be crushed and administered in breast milk to enhance absorption in small infants.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

35 kg or more: 8 tablets/day PO.
25 kg to 34 kg: 6 tablets/day PO.

Geriatric

35 kg or more: 8 tablets/day PO.
25 kg to 34 kg: 6 tablets/day PO.

Adolescents

35 kg or more: 8 tablets/day PO.
25 kg to 34 kg: 6 tablets/day PO.

Children

35 kg or more: 8 tablets/day PO.
25 kg to 34 kg: 6 tablets/day PO.
15 kg to 24 kg: 4 tablets/day PO.
5 kg to 14 kg: 2 tablets/day PO.

Infants

at least 2 months old and 15 kg to 24 kg: 4 tablets/day PO.
at least 2 months old and 5 kg to 14 kg: 2 tablets/day PO.
younger than 2 months old or less than 5 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Coartem 20mg-120mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available. It appears that no dosage adjustments are needed for patients with mild to moderate impairment. Most patients with acute malaria present with some degree of related hepatic and/or renal impairment. In clinical studies, the adverse event profile did not differ in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment compared to patients with normal hepatic function. Caution should be used when administering artemether; lumefantrine to patients with severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available. It appears that no dosage adjustments are needed for patients with mild to moderate impairment. Most patients with acute malaria present with some degree of related hepatic and/or renal impairment. There were few patients with severe renal impairment in clinical studies. Caution should be used when administering artemether; lumefantrine to patients with severe renal impairment.

© 2026 Elsevier