=== Acetaminophen/Caffeine/Pyrilamine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5398)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine is an oral combination of an analgesic, diuretic, and antihistamine indicated for the temporary relief of symptoms associated with menstrual periods, including cramps, headache, bloating, backache, water-weight gain, muscular aches, and fatigue.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Acetaminophen 3,000 mg/day PO, caffeine 360 mg/day PO, and pyrilamine 90 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, malaise, interstitial nephritis, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis, agranulocytosis, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, diuresis, sinus tachycardia, tremor, agitation, anxiety, drowsiness, excitability, headache, hyperesthesia, tinnitus

In an Overdose: Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing. After acute overdose, elevated hepatic enzymes occur within 12 to 36 hours and maximal liver damage and hepatic impairment peak 3 to 5 days after ingestion.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine with caution in individuals with hepatic disease.

ACETAMINOPHEN/CAFFEINE/PYRILAMINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Menstrual Complete, Midol Complete, Midol Menstrual Complete

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of dysmenorrhea and temporary relief of symptoms associated with menstrual periods, including cramps, headache, bloating, backache, water-weight gain, muscular aches, and fatigue

Oral dosage (caplets containing 500 mg acetaminophen, 60 mg of caffeine, and 15 mg of pyrilamine)
Adults


2 caplets PO every 6 hours as needed. Max: 6 caplets/day.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


2 caplets PO every 6 hours as needed. Max: 6 caplets/day.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

alcohol use disorder, ethanol ingestion, hepatic disease, hypovolemia, malnutrition


Use acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine with caution in individuals with hepatic disease. A reduced total daily dose of acetaminophen may be warranted in these individuals. Acetaminophen has been associated with hepatotoxicity. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses more than 4 g/day and often involve more than 1 acetaminophen-containing product. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and with chronic ethanol ingestion while taking acetaminophen, which may be defined as 3 or more alcoholic beverages per day. Use acetaminophen with caution in individuals with alcohol use disorder, chronic malnutrition, severe hypovolemia (i.e., due to dehydration or blood loss), or severe renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less). Take care when prescribing, preparing, and administering acetaminophen to avoid risk of medication errors which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure that the total daily dose of acetaminophen from all sources does not exceed maximum daily limits.


chronic obstructive pulmonary disease


Use sedating antihistamines such as pyrilamine with caution in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including emphysema or chronic bronchitis. The anticholinergic activity of first-generation H1-antagonists may result in thickened bronchial secretions in the respiratory tract, thereby aggravating COPD.


glaucoma


Acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine should be used with caution in people with glaucoma, as an increase in intraocular pressure may occur from the anticholinergic actions of the antihistamine component.


prostatic hypertrophy


Due to the anticholinergic effects which may aggravate urinary retention, first-generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine, should be used with caution in people with trouble urinating due to prostatic hypertrophy.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Pyrilamine can cause drowsiness. Advise individuals receiving acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine to avoid driving or operating machinery and activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of the drug are known. Additive drowsiness may be seen during coadministration with alcohol and other CNS depressants.


renal failure, renal impairment


People with significant renal impairment should generally consult their care team prior to using acetaminophen; dextromethorphan; phenylephrine. Some resources recommend cautious use of acetaminophen in severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) and less frequent acetaminophen dosing in patients with renal failure (CrCl less than 10 mL/minute). Acetaminophen is generally the fever and pain reliever of choice in patients with kidney dysfunction. Guidelines recommend using the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration needed. Habitual use of acetaminophen should be discouraged.


pregnancy


Use caffeine-containing medications with caution during pregnancy. Caffeine crosses the placenta and distributes to embryo-fetal tissues. Animal studies suggest teratogenicity, with a small increase in fetal cleft palate and exencephaly after exposure during organogenesis. Limit caffeine intake from all sources to less than 200 mg/day during pregnancy. Moderate intake below this level does not appear to be a major contributor to miscarriage or preterm birth and has not been consistently associated with congenital malformations in humans. Higher intake levels have been associated with inconsistent fetal risk signals. Interpretation of human data is limited by confounding, exposure variability, and bias. Second-generation antihistamines are preferred over first-generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine, during pregnancy. Acetaminophen, as a single agent, has long been established as the analgesic and antipyretic of choice for short-term use during pregnancy. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM), and the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada (SOGC) support its use when medically necessary and taken at recommended doses for the shortest duration required.  


breast-feeding


Use acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine with caution during breast-feeding. Small, occasional doses of pyrilamine would not be expected to cause adverse effects in breastfed infants. Larger doses or more prolonged use may cause effects in the infant or decrease the milk supply. Side effects of sedating first-generation antihistamines in breastfed infants such as irritability, disturbed sleeping patterns, drowsiness, hyperexcitability, and excessive crying have been reported in a number of cases. Acetaminophen is compatible with breast-feeding and is considered a first-line choice for analgesia, headache, or fever in the lactating individual, including for those patients who are immediately postpartum and planning to breastfeed. Amounts present in milk are much less than the doses usually given to infants, and adverse effects in breastfed infants appear to be rare. Limited published studies report acetaminophen is present in human milk, with similar concentrations in the milk and plasma. Average and maximum neonatal doses of 1% and 2%, respectively, of the weight-adjusted maternal dose are reported after a single oral dose of 1,000 mg. There is one well-documented report of rash occurring in a breastfed infant that was resolved with drug discontinuation and recurred when acetaminophen was resumed. Medication products containing caffeine often contain high caffeine amounts per dose. Caffeine appears in breast milk rapidly after maternal ingestion. Peak caffeine milk levels usually occur within 1 hour after the maternal ingestion of a caffeinated beverage; with milk: plasma ratios of 0.5 to 0.7 reported. Some sources suggest limiting maternal caffeine intake (e.g., 300 to 500 mg per day or less) if breast-feeding, Lower maternal intake is suggested for those who are breast-feeding preterm and newborn infants as these infants have slower caffeine metabolism and may have caffeine concentrations after breast-feeding that approximate maternal levels. High caffeine intake (more than 500 mg/day or 10 cups of coffee or more) by a nursing mother may cause irritability or poor sleeping patterns in the breastfed infant
.47042
If the infant that will breastfeed is prescribed caffeine for apnea, additional maternal caffeine intake should be avoided if breast-feeding.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Use caffeine-containing medications with caution during pregnancy. Caffeine crosses the placenta and distributes to embryo-fetal tissues. Animal studies suggest teratogenicity, with a small increase in fetal cleft palate and exencephaly after exposure during organogenesis. Limit caffeine intake from all sources to less than 200 mg/day during pregnancy. Moderate intake below this level does not appear to be a major contributor to miscarriage or preterm birth and has not been consistently associated with congenital malformations in humans. Higher intake levels have been associated with inconsistent fetal risk signals. Interpretation of human data is limited by confounding, exposure variability, and bias. Second-generation antihistamines are preferred over first-generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine, during pregnancy. Acetaminophen, as a single agent, has long been established as the analgesic and antipyretic of choice for short-term use during pregnancy. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM), and the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada (SOGC) support its use when medically necessary and taken at recommended doses for the shortest duration required.  


Interactions

Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of acyclovir is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and acyclovir is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Adenosine: (Major) Larger doses of adenosine may be required or adenosine may not be effective in the presence of methylxanthines. The effects of adenosine are antagonized by methylxanthines. When used for diagnostic purposes, instruct patients to avoid consumption of methylxanthine-containing products, including caffeinated beverages, for at least 5 half-lives prior to the imaging study.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Allopurinol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of allopurinol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and allopurinol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Amantadine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended. (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of amiodarone is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and amiodarone is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when amoxapine is used concomitantly with drugs are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature Additive sedation may also occur.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects.
Antacids: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Use caution if acetaminophen and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in acetaminophen-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Acetaminophen is a minor (10 to 15%) substrate of CYP3A4. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of acetaminophen. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Aspirin, ASA: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) Methylxanthines, through antagonism of adenosine and thus pharmacologic-induced coronary vasodilation, have been associated with false-negative results during dipyridamole-thallium 201 stress testing. It is recommended that methylxanthines (caffeine, caffeinated beverages and foods, theophylline, etc.) be discontinued for at least 24 hours prior to stress testing. An interaction is not expected when methylxanthines are used concomitantly with chronic dipyridamole therapy. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Azelastine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including skeletal muscle relaxants, such as baclofen.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and belladonna use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and benztropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Beta-agonists: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs because of the potential for additive pharmacological effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs because of the potential for additive pharmacological effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy.
Busulfan: (Moderate) Use busulfan and acetaminophen together with caution; concomitant use may result in increased busulfan levels and increased busulfan toxicity. Separating the administration of these drugs may mitigate this interaction; avoid giving acetaminophen within 72 hours prior to or concurrently with busulfan. Busulfan is metabolized in the liver through conjugation with glutathione; acetaminophen decreases glutathione levels in the blood and tissues and may reduce the clearance of busulfan.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with sedating H1-blockers can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on CNS and/or respiratory depression. Use together with caution. If a CNS depressant needs to be used with butorphanol, use the smallest effective dose and the longest dosing frequency of butorphanol.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Certain foods that contain high amounts of caffeine or theobromine should be limited during the therapeutic use of caffeine in order to limit additive methylxanthine effects. While taking Caffeine-containing medicines, limit the use of foods, beverages (examples: coffee, tea, colas), herbs (examples: guarana, green tea) and other products that contain additional caffeine, such as chocolate and some non-prescription medications or dietary supplements for headache, insomnia, or weight loss. Too much Caffeine can cause effects like nausea, nervousness, or sleeplessness. Some drug products for adults that contain caffeine have about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Moderate) Caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously with oxybates. Monitor for potential side effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Consider a dose reduction of caffeine as clinically appropriate, if adverse reactions occur when administered with cannabidiol. Increased caffeine exposure is possible. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and cannabidiol is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and sedating H1-blockers. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Carbamazepine may induce caffeine metabolism via induction of the hepatic CYP1A2 isoenzyme. (Minor) Carbamazepine may potentially accelerate the hepatic metabolism of acetaminophen. In addition, due to enzyme induction, carbamazepine may increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Clinicians should be alert to decreased effect of acetaminophen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary, and closer monitoring of clinical and/or adverse effects is warranted.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Charcoal: (Minor) Activated charcoal binds many drugs within the gut. Administering charcoal dietary supplements at the same time as a routine acetaminophen dosage would be expected to interfere with the analgesic and antipyretic efficacy of acetaminophen. Charcoal is mostly used in the setting of acetaminophen overdose; however, patients should never try to treat an acetaminophen overdose with charcoal dietary supplements. Advise patients to get immediate medical attention for an acetaminophen overdose.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of chloroprocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue chloroprocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when chlorpromazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Prolonged concurrent use of acetaminophen and salicylates is not recommended. Although salicylates are rarely associated with nephrotoxicity, high-dose, chronic administration of salicylates combined other analgesics, including acetaminophen, significantly increases the risk of analgesic nephropathy, renal papillary necrosis, and end-stage renal disease. Additive hepatic toxicity may occur, especially in combined overdose situations. Do not exceed the recommended individual maximum doses when these agents are given concurrently for short-term therapy.
Cimetidine: (Minor) Inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as cimetidine, may inhibit the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine. In patients who complain of caffeine-related side effects caffeine dosage or intake may need to be reduced.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Reduction or limitation of the caffeine dosage in medications and limitation of caffeine in beverages and food may be necessary during concurrent ciprofloxacin therapy. Ciprofloxacin can decrease the clearance of caffeine. Caffeine toxicity may occur and can manifest as nausea, vomiting, anxiety, tachycardia, or seizures. Ciprofloxacin is a CYP1A2 inhibitor and caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects. Additive drowsiness may occur when clobazam is combined with CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. In addition, caution is recommended when administering clobazam with medications extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 such as diphenhydramine because clobazam has been shown to inhibit CYP2D6 in vivo and may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
cloZAPine: (Major) Caffeine may inhibit clozapine metabolism via CYP1A2. Clozapine clearance has been decreased by roughly 14 percent during coadministration of caffeine, and a documented increase in clozapine serum concentrations has occurred in selected patients. In addition, a single case report associates the appearance of psychiatric symptoms with caffeine ingestion in one patient taking clozapine. Until more data are available, caffeine consumption should be minimized during clozapine treatment. (Moderate) Clozapine exhibits clinically significant anticholinergic effects and sedation that may be additive with other medications that may cause anticholinergic effects and sedation, including antihistamines such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines and to avoid tasks requiring mental alertness until they are aware of the effects of the combination.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect (e.g., drowsiness) may occur when dantrolene is combined with other CNS depressants.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Coadministration of dapsone with acetaminophen may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Advise patients to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention with any signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Darifenacin: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Desflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Desloratadine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Consider a dosage reduction for dexmedetomidine or the sedating antihistamine during concomitant use due to the risk of additive CNS effects.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of diazoxide is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and diazoxide is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and dicyclomine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Acetaminophen plasma concentrations can increase by approximately 50% following administration of diflunisal. Acetaminophen has no effect on diflunisal concentrations. Acetaminophen in high doses has been associated with severe hepatotoxic reactions; therefore, caution should be exercised when using these agents concomitantly.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dipyridamole: (Major) Methylxanthines, through antagonism of adenosine and thus pharmacologic-induced coronary vasodilation, have been associated with false-negative results during dipyridamole-thallium 201 stress testing. It is recommended that methylxanthines (caffeine, caffeinated beverages and foods, theophylline, etc.) be discontinued for at least 24 hours prior to stress testing. An interaction is not expected when methylxanthines are used concomitantly with chronic dipyridamole therapy.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants, like doxapram. CNS stimulants and sympathomimetics are associated with adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias, and the concomitant use of these drugs increases the risk of developing such adverse reactions. Coadminsitration should be avoided or used cautiously.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with antihistamines is necessary. Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with antihistamines may result in additive drowsiness, hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Echinacea: (Moderate) Echinacea may inhibit the metabolism of caffeine. Echinacea reduces the oral clearance of caffeine by 27 percent and increases the mean AUC by 129 percent. Monitor patients for signs of increased caffeine serum concentrations if these drugs are coadministered until more data are available.
Efavirenz: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is a UDP-glucuronyltransferase inhibitor. Acetaminophen is a substrate of UDP-glucuronyltransferases. The significance or effect of this interaction is not known; however, elevated concentrations of acetaminophen are possible. Monitor patients for adverse reactions if these drugs are coadministered.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of enasidenib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and enasidenib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like ephedrine. Adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with ephedrine. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like ephedrine. Adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with ephedrine. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Inhibitors of the hepatic CYP4501A2, such as erythromycin, may inhibit the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine. No specific management is recommended except in patients who complain of caffeine related side effects. In such patients, the dosage of caffeine containing medications or the ingestion of caffeine containing products may need to be reduced.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Esterified Estrogens: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estrogens (selected): (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone and concomitantly administered CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. (Minor) Patients taking eszopiclone for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime, as well as excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep. Limit use of caffeine-containing products including medications, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), and beverages (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, or colas).
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression. (Major) The risk of developing hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen appears to be increased in patients who regularly consume alcohol. Patients who drink more than 3 alcohol-containing drinks a day and take acetaminophen are at increased risk of developing hepatotoxicity. Acute or chronic alcohol use increases acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by inducing CYP2E1 leading to increased formation of the hepatotoxic metabolite of acetaminophen. Also, chronic alcohol use can deplete liver glutathione stores. Administration of acetaminophen should be limited or avoided altogether in patients with alcoholism or patients who consume alcohol regularly.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Etomidate: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Exenatide: (Minor) Although an interaction is possible, these drugs may be used together. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least 1 hour prior to an exenatide injection. When 1,000 mg acetaminophen elixir was given with 10 mcg exenatide (at 0 hours) and at 1, 2 and 4 hours after exenatide injection, acetaminophen AUCs were decreased by 21%, 23%, 24%, and 14%, respectively; Cmax was decreased by 37%, 56%, 54%, and 41%, respectively. Additionally, acetaminophen Tmax was delayed from 0.6 hours in the control period to 0.9, 4.2, 3.3, and 1.6 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before exenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying from exenatide use) and the clinical impact has not been assessed.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and pyrilamine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Fesoterodine: (Minor) Beverages containing caffeine or ethanol may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of fesoterodine to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas) and alcoholic beverages.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and flavoxate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, may increase the risk of CNS depression (e.g., dizziness, somnolence) compared to the use of flibanserin alone. Patients should avoid activities requiring full alertness (e.g., operating machinery or driving) until at least 6 hours after each dose and until they know how flibanserin affects them.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Fluconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 25 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Additive sedative effects may be seen when fluphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Strong inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine, may inhibit the metabolism of caffeine. No specific management is recommended except in patients with caffeine-related side effects after initiating fluvoxamine. In such patients, the dosage of caffeine containing medications or the ingestion of caffeine containing products may need to be reduced.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination. (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pyrilamine and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Galantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Givosiran: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of givosiran and caffeine due to the risk of increased caffeine-related adverse reactions. If use is necessary, consider decreasing the caffeine dose. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. Givosiran may moderately reduce hepatic CYP1A2 enzyme activity because of its pharmacological effects on the hepatic heme biosynthesis pathway.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Heparin: (Minor) Antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant actions of heparin, according to the product labels. However, this interaction is not likely of clinical significance since heparin therapy is adjusted to the partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and other clinical parameters of the patient.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and homatropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination. (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when iloperidone is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Imatinib: (Major) Imatinib, STI-571 may affect the metabolism of acetaminophen. In vitro, imatinib was found to inhibit acetaminophen O-glucuronidation at therapeutic levels. Therefore, systemic exposure to acetaminophen is expected to be increased with coadministration of imatinib. Chronic acetaminophen therapy should be avoided in patients receiving imatinib.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Iodixanol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iohexol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iopromide: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ioversol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with acetaminophen may result in increased serum concentrations of acetaminophen. Acetaminophen is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects. (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive.
Isoflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Agents which induce the hepatic isoenzyme CYP2E1, such as isoniazid, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolites. The combination of isoniazid and acetaminophen has caused severe hepatotoxicity in at least one patient; studies in rats have demonstrated that pre-treatment with isoniazid potentiates acetaminophen hepatotoxicity.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ketamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Ketoprofen: (Minor) Caffeine administered concurrently with ketoprofen reduced the urine volume in 4 healthy volunteers. The clinical significance of the interaction in preterm neonates is not known.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for possible loss of lamotrigine efficacy and seizure activity during coadministration with acetaminophen. Acetaminophen may induce glucuronidation pathways involved in lamotrigine metabolism. During a study among 12 healthy volunteers, concomitant administration of acetaminophen 4 g/day with lamotrigine at steady-state increased the formation clearance of lamotrigine glucuronide conjugates by 45%, decreased lamotrigine AUC by 20%, and reduced lamotrigine trough concentrations by 25%.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with lemborexant.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Caffeine use should be minimized or avoided during and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of linezolid. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Dangerous cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension can occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of lisdexamfetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Lithium: (Major) Caffeine appears to reduce serum lithium concentrations. Adverse reactions to lithium have also been noted to increase simultaneously with a reduction in caffeine intake. Patients taking lithium should be counseled regarding their intake of caffeine. (Moderate) Because lithium has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills, caution is advisable during concurrent use of other medications with centrally-acting effects including the sedating antihistamines.
Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Loratadine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are associated with anticholinergic effects and sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having anticholinergic activity and CNS depressant properties such as traditional antipsychotic agents, including loxapine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and pyrilamine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications. Sedating H1-blockers are associated with sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having CNS depressant properties such as antipsychotics. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Magnesium Salts: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Meclizine: (Major) Meclizine is an H1-blocker which exhibits significant anticholinergic effects. The anticholinergic effects of meclizine may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with antimuscarinic activity, including other sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive sedation may also occur.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of melatonin and sedating H1-blockers due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime, as well as excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mepivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue mepivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Metaproterenol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
metyraPONE: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with sedating H1-blockers can result in additive sedative effects.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Mexiletine is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 isoenzymes, and may reduce CYP1A2-mediated caffeine metabolism. Mexiletine has been shown to increase caffeine concentrations by as much as 23 percent after a single 200 mg dose of mexiletine (nonsignificant increase, p<0.1). Another study has reported that the elimination of caffeine is decreased by 50 percent. While the clinical significance of this interaction is not known, elevated plasma caffeine levels may be of concern in patients with arrhythmias. Patients with cardiac arrhythmias on mexiletine should be cautioned to limit their intake of caffeine.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
migALAstat: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral caffeine and migalastat by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease migalastat exposure and efficacy. Coadministration of 190 mg caffeine reduced the mean migalastat AUC by 55%.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Consistent with the CNS depressant effects of mirtazapine, additive effects may occur with other CNS depressants such as pyrilamine. Mirtazapine should be administered cautiously with such agents because the CNS effects on cognitive performance and motor skills can be additive.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Caffeine should be used cautiously with modafinil. Excessive intake should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia or other side effects.
Molindone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects. (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the effects of nalbuphine on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including nefazodone.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Obeticholic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of obeticholic acid is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 42%; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and obeticholic acid is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Olodaterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and oxybutynin use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects. (Minor) Consuming greater than 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urine output, and counteract the effectiveness of drugs used to treat overactive bladder such as oxybutynin. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of drugs with CNS depressant effects, including paliperidone and pyrilamine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Monitor for signs and symptoms of CNS depression and advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibiting antidepressants (SSRIs), paroxetine is considered the most anticholinergic. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when paroxetine is used with antihistamines having anticholinergic properties such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) The effects of peginterferon alfa-2b on CYP1A2 were evaluated in drug interaction studies. Administration of peginterferon alfa-2b with caffeine, a CYP1A2 substrate, resulted in an 18% to 39% increase in the geographic mean exposure for caffeine, suggesting inhibition of CYP1A2. Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to caffeine if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered with caffeine.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Use pentazocine with caution in any patient receiving medication with CNS depressant and/or anticholinergic activity. Coadministration of pentazocine with sedating H1-blockers may result in additive respiratory and CNS depression and anticholinergic effects, such as urinary retention and constipation.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects. (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination. (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with pyrilamine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like pyrilamine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and acetaminophen should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for acetaminophen-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of acetaminophen. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for acetaminophen-related adverse events.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pramipexole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of pramipexole.
Pramlintide: (Minor) Because pramlintide has the potential to delay the absorption of concomitantly administered medications, medications should be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after pramlintide injection when the rapid onset of a concomitantly administered oral medication is a critical determinant of effectiveness (i.e., analgesics).
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pyrilamine and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of primaquine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and primaquine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Primidone: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Procarbazine: (Major) Ingestion of certain products should be minimized while receiving procarbazine therapy, as the drug has some MAO inhibiting actions. Caffeine may produce hypertension or hypertensive crisis or induce cardiac arrhythmias if administered to patients taking drugs with strong MAOI properties. All preparations containing caffeine should be used sparingly such as teas, coffee, chocolate, cola, guarana, or 'stay awake' products. Some non-prescription medicines also contain caffeine and should not be taken without health care professional advice. Following discontinuation of procarbazine, dietary restrictions should continue for at least 2 weeks due to the slow recovery from the enzyme-inhibiting effects. (Moderate) Use procarbazine and sedating H1-blockers together with caution; additive central nervous system depression may occur.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when prochlorperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Propofol: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Patients who are using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid foods and beverages that contain caffeine. They should also avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients, such as caffeine, that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant effect. If a patient is taking prescribed medications containing caffeine, then they should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine. Additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate may be additive. Consider alternatives to racepinephrine for the treatment of asthma.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as ramelteon. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin or the melatonin analogs (ramelteon, tasimelteon) for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Although sympathomimetics and psychostimulants are contraindicated for use with other monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. (Moderate) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and sedating H1-blockers (sedating antihistamines) may result in additive sedation, anticholinergic effects, or hypotensive reactions. Rasagiline may be less likely to produce these interactions than other MAOIs, due to MAO-B selectivity. However, consider alternatives therapy to antihistamines where possible. If alternative combinations are not available, these medications may be used together with close monitoring. Many non-prescription products for coughs, colds, allergy, hay fever or insomnia contain sedating antihistamines. Patients receiving rasagiline should be counseled that it is essential to consult their healthcare provider or pharmacist prior to the use of any non-prescription products. Patients should also be advised against driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Regadenoson: (Major) Caffeine is a non-specific adenosine receptor antagonist and can interfere with the efficacy of regadenoson. Patients should avoid consumption of any products containing caffeine (including caffeine from foods and beverages such as coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, and chocolate) for at least 12 hours before regadenoson administration.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of acetaminophen with rifampin may increase the known risk of hepatotoxicity in relation to each drug. Severe hepatic dysfunction including fatalities were reported in patients taking rifampin with other hepatotoxic agents. (Minor) Rifampin is a potent inducer of the cytochrome P450 hepatic enzyme system and can reduce the plasma concentrations and possibly the efficacy of caffeine, including caffeine found in green tea products.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and rivastigmine should be avoided if possible. Rivastigmine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of rivastigmine.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue ropivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Although psychostimulants are contraindicated for use with other monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with selegiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of selegiline at manufacturer recommended doses. However, cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension is possible if doses are exceeded or caffeine intake is excessive. (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of selegiline and pyrilamine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Sevoflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by concurrent medications, including H1-blockers. False study results are possible; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Sodium Oxybate: (Moderate) Caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously with oxybates. Monitor for potential side effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Depending on the specific agent, additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like solifenacin are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as sedating H1 blockers. (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Beverages containing caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urine output, and counteract the effectiveness of solifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements, or beverages.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Inducers of CYP1A2, such as St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum, may induce the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine. (Minor) St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum induces cytochrome P450 1A2. About 10 to 15% of the acetaminophen dose undergoes oxidative metabolism via cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2E1, 3A4 and 1A2, which produces the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinonimine. Thus, theoretically St. John's wort might increase the risk of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to NAPQI.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of caffeine when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of caffeine resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP1A2 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as tasimelteon. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin or the melatonin analogs (ramelteon, tasimelteon) for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Terbutaline: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Teriflunomide: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of caffeine during coadministration of teriflunomide. Teriflunomide may be a weak inducer of CYP1A2. When teriflunomide was given concurrently with caffeine in vivo, a CYP1A2 substrate, the Cmax and AUC of caffeine decreased by 18% and 55%, respectively.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as pyrilamine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tetracaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue tetracaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with opiate agonists; antihistamines; antipsychotics; anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics; and other central nervous system depressants due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Major) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. The concurrent administration of caffeine to patients taking aminophylline may produce excessive caffeine-like side effects, such as nausea, irritability or nervousness. Adverse effects such as tremors, insomnia, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently. Patients should avoid medications containing caffeine when possible. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects. (Major) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. The concurrent administration of caffeine to patients taking theophylline may produce excessive caffeine-like side effects, such as nausea, irritability or nervousness. Adverse effects such as tremors, insomnia, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with theophylline. Patients taking theophylline should avoid medications containing caffeine when possible. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects. In neonates, theophylline is metabolized to caffeine; initiating caffeine after theophylline therapy is halted may result in caffeine toxicity in neonates if serum caffeine levels are not monitored prior to the initiation of caffeine therapy. Concurrent use of theophylline with caffeine in neonates is not recommended due to the potential for additive toxicity.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when thioridazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when antipsychotics, such as thiothixene, are used concomitantly with other drugs such as sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients who are taking caffeine to avoid smoking tobacco. Smoking tobacco has been observed to increase caffeine clearance by 50% to 70%. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and smoking tobacco induces CYP1A2.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tolterodine: (Minor) Beverages containing caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of tolterodine to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements, or beverages.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Minor) Verapamil reduces the clearance of caffeine and increases serum caffeine concentrations, presumably via inhibition of hepatic metabolism. During concomitant therapy with verapamil, it may be prudent to advise patients to limit or minimize the intake of caffeinated products to minimize caffeine-related side effects.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects. (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
traZODone: (Moderate) Antihistamines that may cause sedation, such as pyrilamine, should be used cautiously in patients receiving trazodone because of additive CNS-depressant effects.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when trifluoperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as pyrilamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and trihexyphenidyl use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and acetaminophen may result in altered concentrations of acetaminophen. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 and CYP2A6, and an inducer of CYP3A4. Acetaminophen is a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy.
Verapamil: (Minor) Verapamil reduces the clearance of caffeine and increases serum caffeine concentrations, presumably via inhibition of hepatic metabolism. During concomitant therapy with verapamil, it may be prudent to advise patients to limit or minimize the intake of caffeinated products to minimize caffeine-related side effects.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given with sedating H1-blockers.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Also, Cyproheptadine is an antagonist of serotonin in the CNS, a property which may oppose some of the pharmacologic effects of vilazodone. Cyproheptadine has been used for the management of orgasm dysfunction caused by the serotonergic antidepressants and for the adjunctive treatment of serotonin syndrome; however, a reversal of antidepressant effects may occur when cyproheptadine is given in a routine manner along with the antidepressant. Clinically, cyproheptadine reportedly has interfered with the antidepressant and anti-bulimia actions of fluoxetine, but more data are needed to confirm a direct drug-drug interaction.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Minor) Although acetaminophen is routinely considered safer than aspirin and agent of choice when a mild analgesic/antipyretic is necessary for a patient receiving therapy with warfarin, acetaminophen has also been shown to augment the hypoprothrombinemic response to warfarin. Concomitant acetaminophen ingestion may result in increases in the INR in a dose-related fashion. Clinical bleeding has been reported. Single doses or short (i.e., several days) courses of treatment with acetaminophen are probably safe in most patients taking warfarin. Clinicians should be alert for an increased INR if acetaminophen is administered in large daily doses for longer than 10 to 14 days.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zaleplon due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as zaleplon should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Zileuton: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of zileuton is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and zileuton is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
ZOLMitriptan: (Minor) Zolmitriptan can delay the Tmax of acetaminophen by one hour. A single 1 g dose of acetaminophen does not alter the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan and its active metabolite. The interaction between zolmitriptan and acetaminophen is not likely to be clinically significant.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zolpidem due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary. Limit the dose of Intermezzo sublingual tablets to 1.75 mg/day. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages within the hours close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep. However, in healthy subjects (without insomnia) in a pharmacokinetic study, coadministration of caffeine at a dosage of 150 to 300 mg with zolpidem did not counteract the sedative effects of a single 10 mg dose of zolpidem.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.


Adverse Reaction
abdominal pain, anorexia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, malaise, nausea, vomiting


The hepatic effects of acetaminophen are well-known. In a study of combined data collected over a 5-year period from 22 specialty medical centers in the United States, acetaminophen-induced liver injury was the leading cause of acute hepatic failure. Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing. Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity is manifested as hepatic necrosis, jaundice, and hepatic encephalopathy. Early nonspecific symptoms include nausea/vomiting, anorexia, abdominal pain, and malaise. After acute overdose, elevated hepatic enzymes occur within 12 to 36 hours and maximal liver damage and hepatic impairment peak 3 to 5 days after ingestion. GI bleeding can occur secondary to hypoprothrombinemia. Administration of intravenous vitamin K is recommended for hypoprothrombinemia due to acetaminophen overdosage. If more than 150 to 200 mg/kg, 10 g, or an unknown amount of acetaminophen is ingested, obtain a serum acetaminophen concentration 4 hours after ingestion or as soon as possible thereafter. Promptly administer N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which serves as a substitute sulfhydryl donor for glutathione, if the acetaminophen concentration plots above the treatment line on the Rumack-Matthew nomogram. NAC treatment should begin immediately if the estimated time after ingestion approaches 8 hours. Avoid acetaminophen misuse; do not exceed recommended doses and account for intake from all sources (e.g., single-entity products and combination products). Excessive acetaminophen exposure, malnutrition, concurrent ethanol consumption (acute and chronic), and/or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid) may lead to greater exposure of the toxic metabolite, N-acetyl-para-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI), and increase the risk for toxicity.


interstitial nephritis, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis


Acetaminophen has been associated with chronic analgesic nephropathy, a condition characterized by interstitial nephritis and renal papillary necrosis in patients receiving large doses of analgesics for an extended period of time. Though the National Kidney Foundation states there is negligible evidence to suggest chronic acetaminophen use causes analgesic nephropathy, they have recognized a weak association between chronic use and the prevalence of chronic renal failure and end-stage renal disease. In addition, acetaminophen overdose can result in acute renal failure and renal tubular necrosis, though such toxicity rarely occurs without severe hepatic toxicity. The risk of renal complications appears to be higher in patients with poor nutrition, chronic alcohol consumption, or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid). Caffeine is a mild diuretic, and increased urine flow rate, increased creatinine clearance, and increased sodium and calcium excretion have been described with caffeine use.


agranulocytosis, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis


Sporadic case reports of agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, neutropenia, and pancytopenia have been described in patients taking acetaminophen.


hemolysis, hemolytic anemia


Drug-induced hemolysis and hemolytic anemia have been associated with acetaminophen overdose in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Though several case reports of hemolytic anemia in G6PD-deficient patients receiving therapeutic doses of acetaminophen exist, a direct cause and effect relationship has not been well established. Monitor G6PD-deficient patients presenting with acetaminophen toxicity closely for signs and symptoms of hemolysis.


acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, contact dermatitis, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Acetaminophen has been associated with a risk of rare but serious and sometimes fatal skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). These reactions can occur at any time during acetaminophen use, even after the first dose. Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) occurred in a 7-year-old girl after she took 3 doses of oral acetaminophen to treat a fever and sore throat. Twelve hours after the last dose, an erythematous rash appeared, which became generalized and vesicular over the next few hours. The patient developed a fever, low blood pressure, and an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and liver function tests. Skin biopsy was positive for subepidermal blister formation with full-thickness necrolysis of the epidermis. Acetaminophen rechallenge, performed 6 months later in an allergy clinic, produced similar symptoms within 30 minutes of administration and confirmed the initial diagnosis. SJS and TEN usually begin with flu-like symptoms followed by rash, blistering, and sloughing, all of which spread from the face downwards to the entire body (including palms of hands and soles of feet); recovery ranges from weeks to months and complications include corneal ulcerations, blindness, and internal organ damage. AGEP is typically a less severe reaction, characterized by acute onset, fever, and nonfollicular pustules on an erythematous rash; it usually resolves within 2 weeks of drug discontinuation. In addition to the aforementioned skin reactions, multiple cases of allergic contact dermatitis (delayed hypersensitivity type) have been reported in the literature. Various reactions, including generalized pruriginous micropapular eruption, facial edema, generalized pruriginous exanthem, exfoliative dermatitis, and generalized exanthema occurred within several hours after acetaminophen ingestion. Hypersensitivity reactions to acetaminophen may be manifested by urticaria, erythema, rash, maculopapular rash, and fever. Though rare, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. Discontinue acetaminophen immediately and seek medical attention for symptomatic treatment in patients who develop dermatologic or hypersensitivity reactions.


purpura


A case of acquired purpura fulminans developed in a 32-year-old woman who was instructed to take acetaminophen 1,000 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. The patient noted rapidly spreading purpuric lesions and associated edema. Her lesions were nonblanchable and enlarging, and she had multiple purplish-black hemorrhagic and necrotic areas. Purpura fulminans is usually associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation and can occur in patients with inherited or acquired deficiencies of the protein C anticoagulant pathway. Based on the patient's history of alcohol use and poor nutritional status, the authors concluded that reduced hepatic glutathione stores were further reduced by the introduction of acetaminophen, leading to impaired protein C and S synthesis and propagation of the disseminated intravascular coagulation cascade. Discontinuation of alcohol and acetaminophen and administration of vitamin K, heparin, and a systemic antibiotic led to almost complete purpuric lesion and hepatotoxicity resolution in 6 days.


elevated creatine kinase, rhabdomyolysis


Acetaminophen-induced rhabdomyolysis has been described in a case report. A 17-year-old male with a past medical history of drug-induced reactions (hepatitis, agranulocytosis, desquamative dermatitis, and pyrexia) after receiving acetaminophen with or without concurrent antibiotics, was rechallenged with oral acetaminophen 400 mg. Within 5 hours of administration, the adolescent presented with febrile exanthema, neutropenia, and elevated creatine kinase, C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and interleukin-10; the skin eruption and fever lasted 36 hours. Investigate symptoms such as unusual tiredness, weakness or unusual pain and swelling of the extremities, nausea and vomiting, and dark-colored urine promptly.


heart failure, myocarditis


Toxic myocarditis was reported in a 15-year-old female after an intentional overdose of an unspecified amount of acetaminophen. The patient expired as a result of acute heart failure.


hearing loss


Prospective studies have shown there to be a slight but consistent association between regular analgesic use and hearing loss. Acetaminophen-related ototoxicity may result from depletion of glutathione, which protects the cochlea from noise damage. As a true long-term association may exist, counsel patients to minimize long-term treatment with acetaminophen as much as possible. A prospective analysis examining the association between analgesic use and the risk of hearing loss was conducted in 62,261 women 31 to 48 years of age at study enrollment who were originally enrolled in the Nurses' Health Study II. The association between self-reported hearing loss and analgesic use (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and NSAIDs) was examined over 14 years. During 764,247 person-years of follow-up, 10,012 cases of hearing loss were reported. After adjustment for confounders, acetaminophen use 2 or more days per week was independently associated with an increased risk of hearing loss, with the relative risk of hearing loss increasing with increasing frequency of use. Acetaminophen use 2 to 3, 4 to 5, or 6 or more days per week was associated with relative risks of 1.11 (95% CI 1.02 to 1.19), 1.21 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.37), and 1.08 (95% CI 0.95 to 1.22), respectively (p = 0.0007). Of note, those with more frequent use of acetaminophen had higher body mass indices; were more likely to smoke, have hypertension, or have diabetes; and were less physically active. In a similar study in male patients, the association between professionally diagnosed hearing loss and analgesic use (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and NSAIDs) was prospectively analyzed in 26,917 patients 40 to 74 years of age at study enrollment over 18 years. During 369,079 person-years of follow-up, 3,488 cases of hearing loss were reported. After adjustment for confounders, the hazard ratio (HR) for acetaminophen-associated hearing loss was 1.22 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.39, p = 0.09) in patients who were regular users of the drug (at least 2 times weekly) compared to those with less use. Men who regularly used acetaminophen for 4 years or more were 33% (14% to 56%) more likely to develop hearing loss than those with shorter use. In men younger than 50 years, the HR of hearing loss was 1.99 (95% CI 1.34 to 2.95); the degree of association generally decreased with aging. These studies do suggest association; however, data are based on patient reporting of the outcomes. Information regarding noise exposure and analgesic doses was not provided.


diuresis, sinus tachycardia, tremor


Large doses of caffeine may produce muscle tremor or twitches, diuresis, sinus tachycardia, extrasystoles, and other cardiac arrhythmias.


agitation, anxiety, drowsiness, excitability, headache, hyperesthesia, tinnitus


Large doses of caffeine may produce headache, excitability, agitation, a condition resembling anxiety neurosis, scintillating scotoma, hyperesthesia, and tinnitus. Drowsiness or excitability, especially in children, may occur with pyrilamine use.


medication overuse headache, withdrawal


Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine, may lead to medication overuse headache. Patients may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise patients about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use. A distinct caffeine withdrawal syndrome has been described. Patients who consume or receive caffeine daily for several weeks experience notable physical and psychiatric responses including lethargy, anxiety, dizziness, or rebound or medication overuse headache upon caffeine withdrawal.


Description

Acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine is an oral combination of an analgesic, diuretic, and antihistamine indicated for the temporary relief of symptoms associated with menstrual periods, including cramps, headache, bloating, backache, water-weight gain, muscular aches, and fatigue. Administration of acetaminophen in doses higher than recommended may result in hepatic injury, including the risk of liver failure and death; therefore, the maximum recommended daily dose of acetaminophen is not to be exceeded. The maximum recommended daily dose of acetaminophen includes all routes of acetaminophen administration and all acetaminophen-containing products administered, including combination products. Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Caffeine is a mild diuretic. The recommended dose of acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. The use of additional caffeine-containing drugs, foods, or drinks should be limited as too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heartbeat. Pyrilamine is a first-generation antihistamine. First-generation antihistamines block peripheral H1-receptors but also cross the blood-brain barrier and block central nervous system H1-receptors and cholinergic receptors as well, which produces sedation. Excitability may occur, particularly in children.

Mechanism Of Action

Acetaminophen acts within the CNS to increase the pain threshold by inhibiting central cyclooxygenase, an enzyme involved in prostaglandin (PG) synthesis. Acetaminophen inhibits both isoforms of central cyclooxygenase (COX), COX-1 and COX-2. Acetaminophen does not inhibit PG synthesis in peripheral tissues, which is the reason for its lack of peripheral anti-inflammatory effects. Caffeine is methylxanthine analeptic and stimulates the CNS at all levels and has mild diuretic properties. The increased concentrations of intracellular cyclic-AMP mediate most of the pharmacologic actions of caffeine. Caffeine competitively inhibits phosphodiesterase, the enzyme that degrades cyclic 3'- 5' adenosine monophosphate. The cortical effects of caffeine are milder and of shorter duration than those of the amphetamines. In slightly larger doses, caffeine stimulates medullary vagal, vasomotor and respiratory centers, promoting bradycardia, vasoconstriction, and increased respiratory rate. Caffeine is pharmacologically similar to the other methylxanthine drugs, such as theobromine and theophylline; however, these agents differ in the intensity of their actions on various structures. The CNS and skeletal muscle effects of caffeine are greater than those of the other methylxanthines. In all other areas, theophylline has greater activity than caffeine, although some studies report that caffeine has greater diuretic effect than theobromine. Pyrilamine is a histamine H1-receptor inverse agonist. It binds to a G protein-coupled form of the receptor and promotes a G protein-coupled inactive state of the H1-receptor that interferes with the Gq/11-mediated signaling. Pyrilamine competes with histamine for binding at H1-receptor sites on the effector cell surface, resulting in suppression of histaminic edema, flare, and pruritus. Also, the anticholinergic effects of antihistamines provide a drying effect on the nasal mucosa. The sedative properties of pyrilamine occur at the subcortical level of the central nervous system.

Pharmacokinetics


Acetaminophen; caffeine; pyrilamine is administered orally. At therapeutic concentrations, protein binding of acetaminophen is about 10% to 25%. Acetaminophen is widely distributed throughout most body tissues except fat; low protein binding and molecular weight allow blood-brain barrier penetration. Vd of acetaminophen is approximately 1 L/kg in children and adults. Acetaminophen is primarily metabolized in the liver by first-order kinetics and involves 3 separate pathways: glucuronidation, sulfate conjugation, and cytochrome P450 oxidation. Glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation are the major routes of metabolism, while a small amount of drug undergoes oxidative metabolism via CYP2E1 producing the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI). At therapeutic doses, NAPQI is rapidly conjugated with glutathione to form inert cysteine and mercapturic acid metabolites. The P450 isoenzymes 1A2 and 3A4 appear to have a minor role in the metabolism of acetaminophen. Supratherapeutic or repeated therapeutic doses of acetaminophen, fasting, and alcoholism may deplete glutathione stores, leading to increased concentrations of NAPQI and hepatotoxicity. The elimination half-life of acetaminophen is 2 to 3 hours in healthy adults. Acetaminophen is renally excreted primarily as the glucuronide conjugate (40% to 65%) and sulfate metabolite (25% to 35%). Mercapturic acid and cysteine metabolites account for 5% to 12% of the urinary metabolites; less than 5% is excreted as unchanged drug. Caffeine is rapidly distributed throughout the body tissues, readily crossing the blood-brain barrier. Approximately 17% of the drug is bound to plasma proteins. Caffeine has a half-life of approximately 3 to 4 hours in adults. In adults, the drug is rapidly metabolized in the liver to 1-methyluric acid, 1-methylxanthine, and 7-methylxanthine. Caffeine and its metabolites are excreted primarily by the kidneys. Pyrilamine penetrates readily into the brain.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2E1, CYP2D6
Although acetaminophen is primarily metabolized via glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation, it is also a substrate of CYP2E1. Drugs that induce CYP2E1 may increase the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite and therefore increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Because CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 have negligible contribution to acetaminophen metabolism, the enzymes are unlikely to affect toxic metabolite formation. Caffeine is a substrate of the hepatic cytochrome isoenzyme CYP1A2. Limited data suggest pyrilamine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Immediate-release acetaminophen is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, primarily the small intestine. Bioavailability ranges from 85% to 98%. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 30 to 60 minutes and range from 7.7 to 17.6 mcg/mL after a single 1,000 mg dose and 7.9 to 27 mcg/mL at steady-state after 1,000 mg every 6 hours in adults. Maximum concentrations of acetaminophen are delayed with concurrent food administration, however the extent of absorption is not affected. Caffeine is well absorbed from the GI tract. After oral administration, peak plasma concentrations are reached within approximately 30 to 60 minutes.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration

Tablets or Capsules
Administer with water.
Each dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Limit the use of caffeine-containing foods, beverages, supplements or medications during use of this product because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heartbeat.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Acetaminophen 3,000 mg/day PO, caffeine 360 mg/day PO, and pyrilamine 90 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

Acetaminophen 3,000 mg/day PO, caffeine 360 mg/day PO, and pyrilamine 90 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Acetaminophen 3,000 mg/day PO, caffeine 360 mg/day PO, and pyrilamine 90 mg/day PO.

Children

Children 12 years: Acetaminophen 3,000 mg/day PO, caffeine 360 mg/day PO, and pyrilamine 90 mg/day PO.
Children 1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

CVS Menstrual Relief Caplet

CVS Menstrual Relief Complete Caplet

Leader Menstrual Complete Maximum Strength Caplet

Midol Complete Multi-Symptom Relief 500mg-60mg-15mg Caplet

Midol Menstrual Complete 500mg-60mg-15mg Tablet

Premier Value Menstrual Relief Maximum Strength Caplet

Quality Choice Menstrual Complete Multi-Symptom Relief 500mg-60mg-15mg Caplet

RITE AID Menstrual Complete Caplet

RITE AID Menstrual Complete Maximun Strength Caplet

Walgreens Menstrual Complete Pain Relief 500mg-60mg-15mg Gelcap

Walgreens Menstrual Relief Caplet

Walgreens Menstrual Relief Gelcap

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are required. Avoid aspirin use in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency.

Renal Impairment


For patients with a CrCl less than 10 mL/minute, administer acetaminophen at a minimum interval of every 8 hours. Chronic use should be discouraged in patients with underlying renal disease. Avoid aspirin use in patients with GFR less than 10 mL/minute.


© 2026 Elsevier