=== Flurazepam (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 261)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Flurazepam is an oral benzodiazepine indicated for the short-term management of insomnia.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 30 mg/day PO at bedtime.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, ataxia, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, euphoria, hallucinations, headache, restlessness, agitation, insomnia, irritability, mania, nightmares, dysgeusia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, hypersalivation, pyrosis (heartburn), arthralgia, fatigue, weakness, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, palpitations, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, flushing

In an Overdose: Symptoms of CNS stimulation may also include nightmares, talkativeness, excitement, tremor, insomnia, anxiety, restlessness, irritability, acute rage reactions, mania, and hyperactivity and may occur with overdosage. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Flurazepam is contraindicated in any patient with a known or suspected hypersensitivity to flurazepam or with sensitivity to any component of the formulation. Reactions including anaphylaxis or angioedema may become evident as early as the initial dose.

Brand Names
  - Dalmane

Dosage Forms
  - Flurazepam Hydrochloride 15mg Oral capsule
  - Flurazepam Hydrochloride 30mg Oral capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        15 mg for women and 15 or 30 mg for men PO at bedtime are the recommended initial doses. The recommended initial doses are different because flurazepam clearance is lower in women. Use the lowest effective dose. 15 mg/night is suggested for debilitated patients.
        Heading
        Geriatric Adults
        Dosage Description
        15 mg PO at bedtime is the recommended and max dosage. The elderly may be especially sensitive to flurazepam. Since the risk of the development of oversedation, dizziness, confusion and/or ataxia increases substantially with larger doses, limit dosage to 15 mg in geriatric adults. Staggering and falling have also been reported in this population. Flurazepam is not a medication of choice for older adults.
    Heading
    For the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty in falling asleep, frequent nocturnal awakenings, and/or early morning awakenings

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Flurazepam is contraindicated in any patient with a known or suspected hypersensitivity to flurazepam or with sensitivity to any component of the formulation. Reactions including anaphylaxis or angioedema may become evident as early as the initial dose. Patients should be instructed on the appropriate action in the event of an allergic reaction. Treatment with flurazepam should not be re-initiated in patients who experience angioedema after administration of the drug. Patients with a benzodiazepine hypersensitivity to other benzodiazepines may experience a cross-sensitivity to flurazepam.
 
Occasionally, pre-existing depression may emerge or worsen with the use of benzodiazepines; therefore, flurazepam should be used prudently in patients with major depression or psychosis. Flurazepam should be administered cautiously and prescribed in the smallest amount possible to patients with suicidal ideation or a history of suicide attempt. In bipolar disorder, mania and hypomania have been reported in conjunction with the use of benzodiazepines. Use caution in patients with a neuromuscular disease, such as muscular dystrophy, myotonia, or myasthenia gravis as these conditions can be exacerbated. Patients with late stage Parkinson's disease may experience worsening of their psychosis or impaired cognition with administration of benzodiazepines. Benzodiazepines may also cause incoordination or paradoxical reactions that may worsen symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
 
The use of benzodiazepines may worsen severe pain. Benzodiazepines do not provide analgesic, antidepressant or antipsychotic effects.
 
Due to CNS depression, patients should be cautioned against driving or operating machinery until they know how flurazepam may affect them. Sedative-hypnotic medications have the potential to cause sleep-related behaviors such as sleep-driving, a state of driving after ingestion of a sedative-hypnotic while not fully awake and having no memory of the event. Other sleep-related behaviors may include making phone calls or eating while asleep. The exact incidences among various sedative products are unknown; however patients should be informed of the risks prior to receiving any medication from this class. Flurazepam should not be used in patients with preexisting CNS depression. Some patients may experience excessive sedation and impaired ability to perform tasks. Increased CNS effects may be seen with concurrent use of flurazepam and other CNS depressant agents (see Drug Interactions), and in patients with acute ethanol intoxication or organic brain syndromes (i.e., dementia). Patients with ethanol intoxication who have also consumed flurazepam have an increased risk of respiratory suppression, hypotension and coma; avoid use in patients with alcoholism. Consumption of alcohol during the day may cause an additive effect with flurazepam, even if it is only used at night for sleep. The additive effects of flurazepam and alcohol may last for several days until elimination of the drug and its metabolites is complete.
 
Flurazepam should not be used in patients with preexisting respiratory depression or in cases of shock or coma because the drug can worsen respiratory and central depression. Flurazepam should not be used in patients with pulmonary disease that may decrease respiratory function such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or sleep apnea. Flurazepam should be used cautiously in patients who snore regularly, because partial airway obstruction may convert to obstructive sleep apnea with benzodiazepine administration.
 
Flurazepam can cause physical and psychological dependence, and should be used with extreme caution in patients with known, suspected or a history of substance abuse. Tolerance (or tachyphylaxis) may develop to the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Abrupt discontinuation of flurazepam after prolonged use should be avoided. Abrupt discontinuation of benzodiazepine therapy has been reported to cause withdrawal symptoms, seizures and status epilepticus, especially following high dose or prolonged therapy (see Adverse Effects). However, benzodiazepine dependence can occur following administration of therapeutic doses for as few as 1—2 weeks, and withdrawal symptoms may be seen following the discontinuation of therapy. Patients with a history of seizure disorder or who are taking other drugs that lower the seizure threshold (i.e., TCAs, phenothiazines) should not be withdrawn abruptly from benzodiazepines due to the risk of precipitating a seizure. Flurazepam should be withdrawn slowly, using a gradual dosage-tapering schedule. During benzodiazepine withdrawal in general, the greatest risk of seizure appears to be during the first 24 to 72 hours.
 
Many benzodiazepines are contraindicated in patients with acute closed-angle glaucoma. However, the manufacturers of flurazepam do not specifically contraindicate its use in any type of glaucoma. The mechanistic rational for this contraindication has been questioned, as benzodiazepines do not have antimuscarinic activity and do not raise intraocular pressure. Benzodiazepines may be used in patients with open-angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy.
 
The administration of flurazepam can exacerbate acute intermittent porphyria, so the drug should be used with caution in patients with this condition.
 
Flurazepam is classified in FDA pregnancy risk category X. Flurazepam should not be used during pregnancy. The possibility that females of child-bearing potential may be pregnant should be ruled out prior to initiating flurazepam. Adequate birth control measures should be instituted. Positive evidence of human fetal risk exists based on investigational, marketing, or human studies. Fetal abnormalities have been reported in infants whose mothers used benzodiazepines during the first trimester of pregnancy. There may also be non-teratogenic risks associated with benzodiazepines during the perinatal period, including neonatal flaccidity, respiratory suppression, feeding difficulties, and hypothermia in infants born to mothers who received benzodiazepines late in pregnancy. Abrupt withdrawal of flurazepam may lead to seizure activity in the mother. Even a mild seizure may pose a hazard to the developing fetus. Females should be instructed to discontinue flurazepam prior to becoming pregnant. If a woman becomes pregnant while taking flurazepam, she should be counseled regarding the potential risks to the fetus. Flurazepam has no established use in labor or obstetric delivery, including cesarean section.
 
Flurazepam and its metabolites are excreted into breast milk. Flurazepam use is not recommended in women who are breast-feeding due to the possibility of CNS and respiratory suppression, feeding difficulties and weight loss in the nursing infant.
 
Flurazepam should be administered cautiously to patients with severe hepatic disease because the elimination half-life of the drug can be prolonged, possibly resulting in toxicity. Patients with hepatic disease are more likely to experience adverse CNS reactions and should receive reduced initial dosages.
 
Flurazepam should be administered cautiously to patients with renal impairment or renal failure; in general, initial dose selection should be in the lower range and dosage titration should proceed cautiously. Assess renal function during prolonged therapy and adjust dosage as clinically indicated. Active metabolites are excreted renally during flurazepam use; therefore, it may not be the most appropriate benzodiazepine in patients with renal impairment.
 
The clearance and/or elimination of many drugs are reduced in the elderly and may either intensify or prolong the adverse reactions of the drug. Benzodiazepines have been associated with an increased incidence of falls in the elderly. The impairment of cognitive and motor function may be more marked in this patient group and lower initial dosage is recommended together with close monitoring (see Dosage). The elderly have a greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal or cardiac impairment, as well as concomitant diseases and interacting medications. In the elderly, the use of a benzodiazepine without active metabolites (i.e., estazolam, lorazepam, temazepam) will help to prevent accumulation and worsened toxicity. Federal OBRA regulations recommend maximum dosage limits for anxiolytic and hypnotic use in the nursing home resident (see Dosage); the use of long-acting benzodiazepines is discouraged.
 
Flumazenil, a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, is indicated for partial or complete reversal of the depressive effects of benzodiazepines, and may be useful in overdose situations (see Flumazenil monograph). The prescriber should be aware of the risk for seizure activity with flumazenil use, particularly in long-term users of benzodiazepines or patients presenting with a cyclic antidepressant overdose.
 
The safe and effective use of flurazepam in children under 15 years old has not been established. Children are generally more sensitive to the CNS effects of the benzodiazepines.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Flurazepam is contraindicated in people with known hypersensitivity to other benzodiazepines.
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Pre-existing depression may emerge or worsen during use of benzodiazepines, and flurazepam should be administered with caution in patients with depression. Patients who present initially for treatment for sleep disturbances may have an underlying psychological and/or physiological disturbance and should be thoroughly evaluated prior to initiation of flurazepam. The failure of the insomnia to remit or worsening of the insomnia after 7 to 10 days may indicate the presence of other primary psychiatric or medical conditions. Consequently, appropriate precautions (e.g., limiting the total prescription size and increased monitoring for suicidal ideation) should be considered in patients with depression.
    Headline
    coadministration with certain medications, pulmonary disease, respiratory insufficiency
    General Information
    Serious adverse reactions to flurazepam include CNS depression and respiratory depression. As with other benzodiazepines, flurazepam should not be used in patients with known respiratory depression. Use with extreme caution in patients with severe pulmonary disease or conditions associated with compromised respiratory function or respiratory insufficiency, such as sleep apnea or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Flurazepam coadministration with certain medications, such as opioids, may result in serious adverse effects, including profound sedation, CNS depression, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
    Headline
    porphyria
    General Information
    Flurazepam has been reported to exacerbate acute intermittent porphyria; avoid if possible in patients with this condition.
    Headline
    abrupt discontinuation, increased risk for benzodiazepine withdrawal, substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    The use of benzodiazepines, including flurazepam, exposes users to serious adverse events, including risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which can increase the frequency of serious adverse outcomes. Before prescribing and throughout treatment, assess each patient's risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction using a standardized screening tool. Counsel patients about the risks and proper use of flurazepam and prescribe the lowest effective dose to reduce excess exposure and advise patients on proper disposal of unused medication. Minimize the concomitant use of CNS depressants or other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants). If a substance abuse disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute or refer them for early treatment. Chronic, continued use of benzodiazepines may also lead to physical benzodiazepine dependence. The risk of dependence increases with longer treatment duration and higher daily doses and may lead to an increased risk for benzodiazepine withdrawal upon discontinuation. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dose reduction can precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening. To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to reduce the dose or discontinue flurazepam. In some cases, patients using benzodiazepines have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months. Patients with a history of a seizure disorder should not be withdrawn abruptly from benzodiazepines due to the risk of precipitating seizures; status epilepticus has also been reported. Clinicians should be aware that the use of flumazenil may increase the risk of seizures, particularly in long-term users of benzodiazepines.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Due to CNS depressive effects, individuals should be cautioned against driving or operating machinery or participating in other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they know how flurazepam may affect them. Some patients may experience excessive sedation and impaired ability to perform tasks. Given the primary CNS effects of flurazepam, use caution during coadministration with other CNS depressants. Alcohol may further impair cognitive and motor skills and can increase the risk of serious CNS or respiratory depression; alcohol use should be avoided during flurazepam treatment. Flurazepam can also cause drug-induced complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., sleep-driving, eating, sexual activity, or making phone calls) with no memory of these events. These effects can occur with or without concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants. Rarely, serious injuries or death have occurred. Patients should discontinue flurazepam immediately and contact their healthcare provider if such episodes occur.
    Headline
    myasthenia gravis
    General Information
    Flurazepam should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis; these patients may be more sensitive to the CNS and respiratory effects of the benzodiazepines.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Flurazepam should be used with caution in individuals with hepatic failure. Higher exposure and a prolonged half-life of flurazepam may occur in patients with hepatic impairment due to the high-extraction status of the drug. Use low initial doses and monitor closely for daytime sedation or other adverse effects; other agents may be better choices for the treatment of insomnia in these patients.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    The active metabolites of flurazepam are renally excreted and the drug has a long half-life due to these metabolites; therefore, flurazepam is not considered as a benzodiazepine of choice for individuals with insomnia who have significant renal impairment or renal failure. Experts usually recommend other sedative-hypnotic agents that are better studied in renal impairment.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Flurazepam should be used cautiously in geriatric adults since they are more sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines; lower initial doses and slower titration are recommended. Because flurazepam can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, there is a higher risk of falls, particularly in the elderly, with the potential for subsequent severe injuries. Flurazepam is not generally considered a medication of choice for insomnia in the geriatric adult, due to reports of adverse effects and a prolonged elimination in geriatric individuals; if a benzodiazepine is to be used, temazepam may be a more optimal choice for insomnia in this population. The Beers Criteria state that benzodiazepines are potentially inappropriate medications in geriatric adults with a history of delirium, dementia, or a history of falls or fractures; benzodiazepines increase the risk of cognitive impairment, delirium, falls, fractures, and motor vehicle accidents in older adults and avoidance is generally recommended, with some exceptions for approved indications. If a benzodiazepine must be used, consider reducing the use of other CNS-active medications and implement other strategies to reduce fall risk. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates anxiolytic and sedative/hypnotic use in long-term care facilities. When a drug is used to induce sleep, treat a sleep disorder, manage behavior, stabilize mood, or treat a psychiatric disorder, tapering as outlined in the OBRA guidelines should be attempted unless clinically contraindicated. Dosages and durations of treatment used should align with prescribing labels, published literature recommendations, and expert guidelines.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Published data from observational studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide use. However, more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, adjusted for confounding exposures to other substances, have not confirmed these findings. Benzodiazepines cross the placenta. Neonates exposed to benzodiazepines during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, may experience symptoms of sedation. Those with prolonged exposure during late pregnancy may experience withdrawal after delivery. The incidence, time to onset, and duration of sedation and withdrawal are multifactorial (e.g., duration of use, drug lipophilicity, placental disposition, degree of accumulation in neonatal tissues). Individuals who become pregnant or intend to become pregnant while taking flurazepam should be advised to discuss the possibility of discontinuing the drug with their physician. If a benzodiazepine is required during pregnancy, avoid first trimester administration if possible, consider short-acting agents, limit treatment to the shortest possible duration and lowest effective dose, and discontinue the drug well before delivery. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to flurazepam or other psychiatric medications during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications at 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/postpregnancy/.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Monitor neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for symptoms of withdrawal, such as hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties. In neonates exposed during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, monitor for sedation, including respiratory depression, lethargy, and hypotonia. If symptoms are present, manage accordingly.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of flurazepam during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of flurazepam in human milk. Flurazepam use during lactation is not recommended due to the long half-life of its active metabolites, the potential for accumulation in breast milk, and the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. Consider other agents with more data. For the treatment of insomnia, alternate medications for consideration during breast-feeding include zaleplon or zolpidem. If benzodiazepines are used during lactation, monitor exposed children for excessive sedation, slowed breathing rate, poor feeding, and inadequate weight gain. Withdrawal may occur in those with long-term exposure to the drug. This may occur with cessation of breast-feeding or cessation of the medication in the breast-feeding person.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Published data from observational studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide use. However, more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, adjusted for confounding exposures to other substances, have not confirmed these findings. Benzodiazepines cross the placenta. Neonates exposed to benzodiazepines during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, may experience symptoms of sedation. Those with prolonged exposure during late pregnancy may experience withdrawal after delivery. The incidence, time to onset, and duration of sedation and withdrawal are multifactorial (e.g., duration of use, drug lipophilicity, placental disposition, degree of accumulation in neonatal tissues). Individuals who become pregnant or intend to become pregnant while taking flurazepam should be advised to discuss the possibility of discontinuing the drug with their physician. If a benzodiazepine is required during pregnancy, avoid first trimester administration if possible, consider short-acting agents, limit treatment to the shortest possible duration and lowest effective dose, and discontinue the drug well before delivery. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to flurazepam or other psychiatric medications during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications at 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/postpregnancy/.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of flurazepam during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of flurazepam in human milk. Flurazepam use during lactation is not recommended due to the long half-life of its active metabolites, the potential for accumulation in breast milk, and the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. Consider other agents with more data. For the treatment of insomnia, alternate medications for consideration during breast-feeding include zaleplon or zolpidem. If benzodiazepines are used during lactation, monitor exposed children for excessive sedation, slowed breathing rate, poor feeding, and inadequate weight gain. Withdrawal may occur in those with long-term exposure to the drug. This may occur with cessation of breast-feeding or cessation of the medication in the breast-feeding person.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with adagrasib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Amoxapine may enhance the response to the effects of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants. Patients should be warned of the possibility of drowsiness that may impair performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving an automobile or operating machinery.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. Monitor patients closely who receive concurrent therapy. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as flurazepam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of flurazepam efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Use caution if flurazepam and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. If a benzodiazepine is necessary, a dosage adjustment of the multi-day regimen may be necessary depending on the clinical situation (e.g., elderly patients) and degree of monitoring available; no dosage adjustment is needed for a single 40-mg dose of aprepitant or 150-mg dose of fosaprepitant. Consider selection of an agent that is not metabolized via CYP3A4 isoenzymes (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam, temazepam). Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of flurazepam. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as flurazepam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of flurazepam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; flurazepam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; inhibitors of this isoenzyme may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If benzhydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benztropine: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of benztropine.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with berotralstat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Bicalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with bicalutamide is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and bicalutamide is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Brexanolone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of brexanolone with CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines may increase the likelihood or severity of adverse reactions related to sedation and additive CNS depression. Monitor for excessive sedation, dizziness, and a potential for loss of consciousness during brexanolone use.
Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brimonidine; Brinzolamide: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated for pain in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. Reduce injectable buprenorphine dose by 1/2, and for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start therapy with the 5 mcg/hour patch. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. In patients treated with buprenorphine for opioid use disorder, cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases. Consider alternatives to benzodiazepines for conditions such as anxiety or insomnia in patients receiving buprenorphine maintenance treatment. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated for pain in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. Reduce injectable buprenorphine dose by 1/2, and for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start therapy with the 5 mcg/hour patch. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. In patients treated with buprenorphine for opioid use disorder, cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases. Consider alternatives to benzodiazepines for conditions such as anxiety or insomnia in patients receiving buprenorphine maintenance treatment. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
busPIRone: (Moderate) It is common for patients to overlap anxiety treatment when switching from benzodiazepines to buspirone. Buspirone has a slow onset of action and the drug will not block the withdrawal syndrome often seen with cessation of benzodiazepine therapy in those with benzodiazepine dependence. Therefore, before starting therapy with buspirone, withdraw patients gradually from the benzodiazepine. Alternatively, conversion to buspirone therapy may require treatment overlap to allow for the downward titration of the benzodiazepine while buspirone takes effect. It should be noted that the combination of buspirone and benzodiazepines can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and flurazepam. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of flurazepam if coadministration with carbamazepine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of cariprazine, caution should be used when cariprazine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration of flurazepam with ceritinib is necessary. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Cimetidine can inhibit the hepatic clearance of some benzodiazepines that undergo oxidative metabolism, including flurazepam.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Ciprofloxacin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. Monitor patients closely who receive concurrent therapy.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
cloBAZam: (Major) Use clobazam with other benzodiazepines with caution due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Clonidine has CNS depressive effects and can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) If concurrent therapy with clozapine and a benzodiazepine is necessary, it is advisable to begin with the lowest possible benzodiazepine dose and closely monitor the patient, particularly at initiation of treatment and following dose increases. Although the combination has been used safely, adverse reactions such as confusion, ataxia, somnolence, delirium, collapse, cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, and death have occurred rarely in patients receiving clozapine concurrently or following benzodiazepine therapy. Several benzodiazepines, including clonazepam, oxazepam, flurazepam, diazepam, clobazam, flunitrazepam, and lorazepam have been implicated in these reactions. At least one case of sudden death was reported following intravenous administration of lorazepam to a patient receiving clozapine.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of flurazepam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; flurazepam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; inhibitors of this isoenzyme may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
COMT inhibitors: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with conivaptan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Daridorexant: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during use of daridorexant with flurazepam. Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. Use of more than 2 hypnotics should be avoided due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with daridorexant, a reduction in dose of one or both agents may be needed. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if daridorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of flurazepam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; flurazepam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; inhibitors of this isoenzyme may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of flurazepam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; flurazepam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; inhibitors of this isoenzyme may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Desipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as flurazepam, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dexmedetomidine and benzodiazepines may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in dosage of dexmedetomidine or the benzodiazepine may be required.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Dicyclomine can cause drowsiness, so it should be used cautiously in patients receiving CNS depressants like benzodiazepines.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Diltiazem could theoretically inhibit CYP3A4 metabolism of oxidized benzodiazepines, such as flurazepam. Use these drugs together cautiously, and monitor the patient for benzodiazepine-related side effects.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Disulfiram may compete with flurazepam for hepatic CYP450 binding sites, thereby slowing the metabolism of flurazepam and increasing the steady-state plasma concentrations. This may increase the risk for benzodiazepine-related side effects such as dizziness, sedation, low blood pressure, or other flurazepam-related adverse effects.
Doxepin: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if the use of benzodiazepines are necessary with dronabinol, and monitor for additive dizziness, confusion, somnolence, and other CNS effects.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Flurazepam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes. In December 2001, the FDA issued a black box warning regarding the use of droperidol and its association with QT prolongation and potential for cardiac arrhythmias based on post-marketing surveillance data. Risk factors for the development of prolonged QT syndrome may include the use of benzodiazepines. Also, droperidol and benzodiazepines can both cause CNS depression. If used with a benzodiazepine, droperidol should be initiated at a low dose and adjusted upward, with caution, as needed to achieve the desired effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) In vivo, efavirenz has been shown to induce hepatic enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Patients receiving benzodiazepines that are metabolized by these isoenzymes may experience decreased benzodiazepine serum concentrations if administered concurrently with efavirenz. Efavirenz should be used with caution with oxidized benzodiazepines including flurazepam. Monitor patients closely for excessive side effects.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) In vivo, efavirenz has been shown to induce hepatic enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Patients receiving benzodiazepines that are metabolized by these isoenzymes may experience decreased benzodiazepine serum concentrations if administered concurrently with efavirenz. Efavirenz should be used with caution with oxidized benzodiazepines including flurazepam. Monitor patients closely for excessive side effects.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) In vivo, efavirenz has been shown to induce hepatic enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Patients receiving benzodiazepines that are metabolized by these isoenzymes may experience decreased benzodiazepine serum concentrations if administered concurrently with efavirenz. Efavirenz should be used with caution with oxidized benzodiazepines including flurazepam. Monitor patients closely for excessive side effects.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering flurazepam with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated flurazepam plasma concentrations. Flurazepam is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of flurazepam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; flurazepam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; inhibitors of this isoenzyme may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of flurazepam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; flurazepam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; inhibitors of this isoenzyme may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of flurazepam if coadministration with encorafenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of flurazepam efficacy if coadministration with enzalutamide is necessary. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Erythromycin may inhibit the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of flurazepam, Monitor patient clinically for enhanced benzodiazepine response.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with eszopiclone can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. The concurrent use of eszopiclone with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics at bedtime or in the middle of the night is not recommended. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Fluconazole could theoretically inhibit CYP3A4 metabolism of oxidized benzodiazepines, such as flurazepam. Coadminister these drugs with caution.
Flumazenil: (Major) Flumazenil competes with benzodiazepines for binding at the GABA/benzodiazepine-receptor complex, the specific binding site of benzodiazepines. Because binding at the receptor is competitive and flumazenil has a much shorter duration of action than do most benzodiazepines, it is possible for the effects of flumazenil to dissipate sooner than the effects of the benzodiazepine. Flumazenil does not affect the pharmacokinetics of the benzodiazepines. Abrupt awakening can cause dysphoria, agitation, and possibly increased adverse effects. If administered to patients who have received a benzodiazepine chronically, abrupt interruption of benzodiazepine agonism by flumazenil can induce benzodiazepine withdrawal including seizures. Flumazenil has minimal effects on benzodiazepine-induced respiratory depression; suitable ventilatory support should be available, especially in treating acute benzodiazepine overdose. Flumazenil does not reverse the actions of barbiturates, opiate agonists, or tricyclic antidepressants.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Fluoxetine could theoretically inhibit CYP3A4 metabolism of oxidized benzodiazepines, including flurazepam. Patients should be monitored for clinical response, and adjust benzodiazepine dosage if needed.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) In patients receiving moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as fluvoxamine, flurazepam should be used with caution and with consideration of appropriate dosage reduction. Monitor for excessive sedation or next-day drowsiness. The metabolism of flurazepam to the major active metabolites N-desalkylflurazepam and N-1-hydroxyethylflurazepam appears to be catalyzed by CYP3A. Fluvoxamine may inhibit the oxidative metabolism of flurazepam to some extent, and has been shown to increase the exposure to other benzodiazepines metabolized by the CYP450 system.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of flurazepam if coadministration with phenytoin/fosphenytoin is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers.
Gabapentin: (Major) Concomitant use of benzodiazepines with gabapentin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during flurazepam treatment due to the risk for increased flurazepam exposure and adverse reactions. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Guanfacine has been associated with sedative effects and can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines, Caution should be exercised with simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of flurazepam if coadministration with phenytoin/fosphenytoin is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydromorphone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce the initial dosage of hydromorphone and titrate to clinical response; for hydromorphone extended-release tablets, use 1/3 to 1/2 of the estimated hydromorphone starting dose. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with flurazepam, a CYP3A substrate, as flurazepam toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when iloperidone is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Imatinib, STI-571 may inhibit the metabolism of flurazepam and leading to increased levels and potential toxicity. Monitor patients closely who receive concurrent therapy.
Imipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with flurazepam may result in increased serum concentrations of flurazepam. Flurazepam is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as itraconazole, may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. Monitor patients closely who receive concurrent therapy. Reduced flurazepam dosages or avoidance of benzodiazepine use may be recommended in selected situations.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. Monitor patients closely who receive concurrent therapy.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during use of lemborexant with benzodiazepines. Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. Use of more than 2 hypnotics should be avoided due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with lemborexant, a reduction in dose of one or both agents may be needed. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of flurazepam may occur if given with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If levorphanol is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce the initial dose of levorphanol by approximately 50% or more. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and benzodiazepines. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of efficacy if coadministration of flurazepam with lorlatinib is necessary. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of flurazepam.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is expected to decrease the systemic exposure of flurazepam. If used together, monitor for clinical efficacy. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is expected to decrease the systemic exposure of flurazepam. If used together, monitor for clinical efficacy. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including benzodiazepines. In one study, co-administration of lurasidone and midazolam increased the Cmax and AUC of midazolam by about 21% and 44%, respectively, compared to midazolam alone; however, dosage adjustment of midazolam based upon pharmacokinetic parameters is not required during concurrent use of lurasidone.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Melatonin: (Major) Use caution when combining melatonin with the benzodiazepines; when the benzodiazepine is used for sleep, co-use of melatonin should be avoided. Use of more than 1 agent for hypnotic purposes may increase the risk for over-sedation, CNS effects, or sleep-related behaviors. Be alert for unusual changes in moods or behaviors. Use caution when combining melatonin with benzodiazepines for other uses. Patients reporting unusual sleep-related behaviors should likely discontinue melatonin use. In animal studies, melatonin has been shown to increase benzodiazepine binding to receptor sites. In one case report, a benzodiazepine-dependent woman with an 11 year history of insomnia weaned and discontinued her benzodiazepine prescription within a few days without rebound insomnia or apparent benzodiazepine withdrawal when melatonin was given. In another case report, the ingestion of excessive melatonin along with normal doses of chlordiazepoxide and an antidepressant resulted in lethargy and short-term amnestic responses. Both cases suggest additive pharmacodynamic effects. In a clinical trial, there was clear evidence for a transitory pharmacodynamic interaction between melatonin and another hypnotic agent one hour following co-dosing. Concomitant administration resulted in increased impairment of attention, memory and coordination compared to the hypnotic agent alone.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Methadone: (Major) Concurrent use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective dose and minimum duration possible. If methadone is initiated for pain in an opioid-naive patient taking a benzodiazepine, use an initial methadone dose of 2.5 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial benzodiazepine dose and titrate to response. In patients treated with methadone for opioid use disorder, cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases. Consider alternatives to benzodiazepines for conditions such as anxiety or insomnia during methadone maintenance treatment. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Methyldopa is associated with sedative effects. Methyldopa can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as barbiturates, benzodiazepines, opiate agonists, or phenothiazines when administered concomitantly.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with benzodiazepines can result in additive sedative effects.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS-active drugs with milnacipran or levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with these medications.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and mirtazapine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and flurazepam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of flurazepam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of flurazepam. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with flurazepam.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If morphine is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosages and titrate to clinical response. For extended-release tablets, start with morphine 15 mg PO every 12 hours, and for extended-release capsules, start with 30 mg PO every 24 hours or less. Use an initial morphine; naltrexone dose of 20 mg/0.8 mg PO every 24 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Nefazodone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Nicardipine is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Co-administration with nicardipine may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates including flurazepam.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of nilotinib, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, and flurazepam, a CYP3A4 substrate, may result in increased flurazepam levels. A flurazepam dose reduction may be necessary if these drugs are used together.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Consider withholding flurazepam, if clinically appropriate, during receipt of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir. If this is not feasible, consider using an alternative COVID-19 therapy or reducing the flurazepam dose. However, do not stop flurazepam abruptly or rapidly reduce the dose as this may precipitate an acute withdrawal reaction, especially in patients who have been receiving high doses over an extended period. Coadministration may increase flurazepam exposure resulting in increased toxicity and excessive sedation. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with nirogacestat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nitroglycerin: (Minor) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as benzodiazepines. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin is used concurrently with benzodiazepines.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine. (Moderate) Fluoxetine could theoretically inhibit CYP3A4 metabolism of oxidized benzodiazepines, including flurazepam. Patients should be monitored for clinical response, and adjust benzodiazepine dosage if needed.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with flurazepam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with flurazepam to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as flurazepam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as flurazepam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. (Moderate) Several hepatic inducers, including rifabutin, can theoretically increase the clearance of benzodiazepines metabolized by oxidative metabolism, leading to lower benzodiazepine concentrations.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as flurazepam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Opicapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Flurazepam is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of flurazepam may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxymorphone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use an initial dose of oxymorphone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage and titrate to clinical response. If the extended-release oxymorphone tablets are used concurrently with a CNS depressant, use an initial dosage of 5 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as benzodiazepines, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness when coadministered with paliperidone. Monitor for signs and symptoms of CNS depression and advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of papaverine with potent CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines could lead to enhanced sedation.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and flurazepam, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of flurazepam. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Perphenazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of flurazepam if coadministration with pexidartinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of flurazepam if coadministration with phenytoin/fosphenytoin is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Due to the effects of pimozide on cognition, it should be used cautiously with other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole inhibits CYP3A4 and may increase serum concentrations of benzodiazepines metabolized by this enzyme, including flurazepam.
Pramipexole: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, including pramipexole, can potentiate the CNS effects.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Pregabalin: (Major) Concomitant use of benzodiazepines with pregabalin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
Procarbazine: (Minor) CNS depressants benzodiazepines can potentiate the CNS depression caused by procarbazine therapy, so these drugs should be used together cautiously.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Propofol: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Protease inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Protriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of quetiapine; coadministration of quetiapine with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, or other CNS depressants may result in additive sedative effects.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Ramelteon is a sleep-promoting agent; therefore, additive pharmacodynamic effects are possible when combining ramelteon with benzodiazepines or other miscellaneous anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed with the use of zolpidem. Use of ramelteon 8 mg/day for 11 days and a single dose of zolpidem 10 mg resulted in an increase in the median Tmax of zolpidem of about 20 minutes; exposure to zolpidem was unchanged. Ramelteon use with hypnotics of any kind is considered duplicative therapy and these drugs are generally not co-administered.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) CYP3A4 inhibitors, like ranolazine, may reduce the metabolism of clonazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of MAOIs can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including buprenorphine, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Use these drugs cautiously with MAOIs; warn patients to not drive or perform other hazardous activities until they know how a particular drug combination affects them. In some cases, the dosages of the CNS depressants may need to be reduced.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with relacorilant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Benzodiazepine doses may need to be reduced up to 75% during coadministration with remifentanil. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by flurazepam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate inhibitor at doses of 400 mg/day.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate inhibitor at doses of 400 mg/day.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Several hepatic inducers, including rifabutin, can theoretically increase the clearance of benzodiazepines metabolized by oxidative metabolism, leading to lower benzodiazepine concentrations.
rifAMPin: (Major) Rifamycins are hepatic inducers and can theoretically increase the clearance of benzodiazpines metabolized by oxidative metabolism, leading to lower benzodiazepine concentrations.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of flurazepam if coadministration with rifapentine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of rotigotine with other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines, can potentiate the sedative effects of rotigotine.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of flurazepam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to benzodiazepines.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and selegiline due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with selpercatinib is necessary; adjust the dose of flurazepam if necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and selpercatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by benzodiazepines. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of flurazepam if coadministration with St. John's Wort is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and flurazepam. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If tapentadol is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, a reduced initial dosage of tapentadol is recommended. If the extended-release tapentadol tablets are used concurrently with a benzodiazepine, use an initial tapentadol dose of 50 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Teduglutide: (Moderate) Altered mental status has been observed in patients taking teduglutide and benzodiazepines in the adult clinical studies for teduglutide. Careful monitoring and possible dose adjustment of the benzodiazepine agent may be required. Teduglutide has direct effects on the gut that may increase benzodiazepine exposure by improving oral absorption.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as benzodiazepines, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of benzodiazepine anxiolytics, sedatives, or hypnotics with thalidomide may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided. Thalidomide frequently causes drowsiness and somnolence. Dose reductions may be required. Patients should be instructed to avoid situations where drowsiness may be a problem and not to take other medications that may cause drowsiness without adequate medical advice. Advise patients as to the possible impairment of mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks, such as driving a car or operating other complex or dangerous machinery.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Minor) Aminophylline or Theophylline have been reported to counteract the pharmacodynamic effects of diazepam and possibly other benzodiazepines. The clinical significance of this interaction is not certain. A proposed mechanism is competitive binding of these methylxanthines to adenosine receptors in the brain. If such therapy is initiated or discontinued, monitor the clinical response to the benzodiazepine.
Thioridazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as benzodiazepines. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
tiaGABine: (Moderate) Because of the possible additive effects of drugs that depress the central nervous system, benzodiazepines should be used with caution in patients receiving tiagabine.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with protease inhibitors is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Tolcapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as verapamil, may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
traZODone: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of trazodone and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of trihexyphenidyl.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Trimipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with tucatinib is necessary; adjust the dose of flurazepam if necessary. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Major) Any substances that act on the CNS, including psychoactive drugs and drugs used as anesthetic adjuvants (e.g., barbiturates, benzodiazepines), may theoretically interact with valerian, Valeriana officinalis. The valerian derivative, dihydrovaltrate, binds at barbiturate binding sites; valerenic acid has been shown to inhibit enzyme-induced breakdown of GABA in the brain; the non-volatile monoterpenes (valepotriates) have sedative activity. These interactions are probably pharmacodynamic in nature. There is a possibility of interaction with valerian at normal prescription dosages of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates and benzodiazepines). Patients who are taking barbiturates or other sedative/hypnotic drugs should avoid concomitant administration of valerian. Patients taking medications such as tricyclic antidepressants, lithium, MAOIs, skeletal muscle relaxants, SSRIs and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (e.g., duloxetine, venlafaxine) should discuss the use of herbal supplements with their health care professional prior to consuming valerian; combinations should be approached with caution in the absence of clinical data. Patients should not abruptly stop taking their prescribed psychoactive medications.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as flurazepam, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of flurazepam when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Verapamil: (Moderate) CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as verapamil, may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given in combination with benzodiazepines.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as the benzodiazepines.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. Monitor patients closely who receive concurrent therapy.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadminsitration with voriconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of flurazepam if necessary. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that zafirlukast inhibits the CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 isoenzymes at concentrations close to the clinically achieved total plasma concentrations. Until more clinical data are available, zafirlukast should be used cautiously in patients stabilized on drugs metabolized by CYP3A4, such as flurazepam.
Zaleplon: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of zaleplon and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Ziprasidone has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. Additive CNS depressant effects are possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with any CNS depressant.
Zolpidem: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with zolpidem can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. For Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets, reduce the dose to 1.75 mg/night. Concurrent use of zolpidem with other sedative-hypnotics, including other zolpidem products, at bedtime or the middle of the night is not recommended. In addition, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of zolpidem and other CNS depressants than with zolpidem alone.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Tolerance (or tachyphylaxis) may develop to the sedative effects of benzodiazepines, including flurazepam. Tolerance to the anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines has also been reported. If tolerance develops, clinicians should carefully assess the need for escalating doses. A temporary reduction in dosage may be beneficial in some cases to reverse the effects of tachyphylaxis. Daytime anxiety or wakefulness during the last third of the night may develop after several weeks of consistent nightly dosing with flurazepam. These effects are thought to be due to the development of tolerance, which leads to a deficiency of benzodiazepine binding sites.Prolonged use of benzodiazepines can produce physiological dependence with or without psychological dependence. The risk of dependence increases with duration of treatment and in those with a history of alcohol or drug abuse. Dependence can occur following routine use of therapeutic doses for as few as 1—2 weeks, particularly during treatment with short-acting benzodiazepines. Extreme caution is advised when considering the use of flurazepam in patients with a known or suspected history of substance abuse.Anterograde amnesia can occur following administration of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines, such as flurazepam. The risk for developing anterograde amnesia increases at higher doses and with concurrent ingestion of alcohol.Most of the adverse effects associated with flurazepam therapy are dose-dependent and CNS-related including headache, drowsiness, ataxia, dizziness, confusion, depression, syncope, fatigue, tremor, and vertigo.Sedative-hypnotic medications have the potential to cause sleep-related behaviors such as sleep-driving, a state of driving after ingestion of a sedative-hypnotic while not fully awake and having no memory of the event. Other sleep-related behaviors may include sleep-walking (somnambulism) or making phone calls or eating while asleep. The exact incidences among various sedative products are unknown; however patients should be informed of the risks prior to receiving any medication from this class.CNS stimulation can occur in as many as 10% of patients receiving benzodiazepines and is of particular significance in psychiatric patients and hyperactive children. This paradoxical effect is possibly due to disinhibition of previously inhibited responses. Symptoms of CNS stimulation include nightmares, talkativeness, excitement, mania, tremor, insomnia, anxiety, restlessness, euphoria, acute rage reactions, and hyperactivity. Benzodiazepine therapy usually should be discontinued if signs of CNS stimulation occur.Abrupt withdrawal of benzodiazepine therapy has been reported to cause withdrawal symptoms such as irritability, nervousness, and insomnia. Benzodiazepine withdrawal is more likely to occur following abrupt cessation of excessive or prolonged doses, but it can occur following the discontinuance of therapeutic doses administered for as few as 1—2 weeks. Abdominal cramps, confusion, depression, perceptual disturbances, sweating, nausea/vomiting, paresthesias, photophobia, hyperacusis, tachycardia, and trembling also occur during benzodiazepine withdrawal, but the incidence of these reactions is lower. Convulsions, hallucinations, delirium, and paranoia also can occur. Benzodiazepines should be withdrawn cautiously and slowly, using a very gradual dosage-tapering schedule.Flurazepam is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category X. Many benzodiazepines have been associated with teratogenesis. Use of benzodiazepines during pregnancy, particularly in the first trimester, increases the risk of congenital malformations and decreases viability.Anaphylactoid reactions (e.g., angioedema) may occur with sedative-hypnotics, such as flurazepam, and may become evident as early as the initial dose. Airway obstruction resulting from angioedema of the tongue, glottis, or larynx may be fatal. Other symptoms suggestive of anaphylaxis may include dyspnea, throat closing, and nausea/vomiting. Patients should be instructed on the appropriate action in the event of an allergic reaction. Treatment with flurazepam should not be re-initiated in patients who experience angioedema.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    amnesia, memory impairment
    General Information
    Anterograde amnesia or memory impairment can occur following administration of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines, such as flurazepam. The risk for developing anterograde amnesia increases at higher doses and with concurrent ingestion of alcohol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anxiety, ataxia, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, euphoria, hallucinations, headache, restlessness
    General Information
    Most of the adverse effects associated with flurazepam therapy are dose-dependent and CNS-related, with the most common side effect, consistent with its use for insomnia, being drowsiness and sedation; dizziness may also occur. During clinical trials, headache, nervousness, talkativeness, apprehension or anxiety, and weakness were reported. There have also been rare occurrences of difficulty in focusing, euphoria, depression, slurred speech (dysarthria), confusion, restlessness, and hallucinations. The CNS effects of alcohol or other CNS depressants are additive to those of benzodiazepines. Geriatric or debilitated patients may be particularly sensitive to benzodiazepine-related CNS effects. Because flurazepam can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, there is a higher risk of ataxia and falls, particularly in the geriatric adult, with the potential for subsequent severe injuries.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    complex sleep-related behaviors, somnambulism
    General Information
    Sedative-hypnotic medications, such as flurazepam, have the potential to cause complex sleep-related behaviors such as sleep-driving, a state of driving after ingestion of a sedative-hypnotic while not fully awake and having no memory of the event. Other complex sleep-related behaviors may include sleepwalking (somnambulism) making phone calls or eating while asleep. The exact incidences among various sedative products are unknown; however, patients should be informed of the risks before receiving any medication from this class.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      complex sleep-related behaviors
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      somnambulism
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    agitation, insomnia, irritability, mania, nightmares
    General Information
    Paradoxical reactions with flurazepam and other benzodiazepines are rare and may include restlessness, overstimulation and agitation. Symptoms of CNS stimulation may also include nightmares, talkativeness, excitement, tremor, insomnia, anxiety, restlessness, irritability, acute rage reactions, mania, and hyperactivity and may occur with overdosage. Benzodiazepine therapy usually should be discontinued if signs of CNS stimulation occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, hypersalivation, nausea, pyrosis (heartburn), vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects reported during treatment with flurazepam include pyrosis (heartburn), dyspepsia (upset stomach), nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, and gastrointestinal pain. There have also been rare instances of xerostomia, bitter taste (dysgeusia), hypersalivation, and ,anorexia. Laboratory abnormalities including elevated hepatic enzymes (elevated SGOT, SGPT), hyperbilirubinemia (total and direct bilirubin), and elevated alkaline phosphatase have occurred. Jaundice and elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported during treatment with other benzodiazepines.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pyrosis (heartburn)
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blurred vision, ocular irritation
    General Information
    In rare instances, adverse ophthalmic effects including blurred vision, difficulty focusing, and ocular irritation/burning have been reported during flurazepam treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, fatigue, weakness
    General Information
    Nonspecific or general side effects of fatigue, weakness, and body and joint pains (arthralgia) have been reported during flurazepam treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, palpitations
    General Information
    There have been rare occurrences of the following cardiovascular effects during flurazepam treatment: palpitations, chest pain (unspecified) and hypotension.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, flushing, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash
    General Information
    There have also been rare occurrences of sweating (hyperhidrosis), flushing, pruritus, and skin rash during flurazepam treamtent during clinical trials. Serious allergic, anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions (e.g., angioedema) may occur with sedative-hypnotics, such as flurazepam, and may become evident as early as the initial dose. Airway obstruction resulting from angioedema of the tongue, glottis, or larynx may be fatal. Some patients have had additional symptoms such as dyspnea, throat closing, or nausea and vomiting that suggest anaphylaxis. Treatment with flurazepam should not be reinitiated in patients who experience angioedema or other serious allergic reaction.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    leukopenia
    General Information
    There have been rare occurrences of leukopenia and granulocytopenia during flurazepam treatment. Monitor blood counts during prolonged therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    tolerance
    General Information
    Tolerance to flurazepam may develop from continued therapy. Tolerance is a physiological state characterized by a reduced response to a drug after repeated administration (i.e., a higher dose of a drug is required to produce the same effect that was once obtained at a lower dose). Tolerance to the therapeutic effect of flurazepam may develop; however, little tolerance develops to the amnestic reactions and other cognitive impairments caused by benzodiazepines.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Prolonged use of benzodiazepines can produce physiological dependence with or without psychological dependence. The risk of psychological dependence increases in those with a history of alcohol or substance abuse. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, and death. Caution is advised when considering the use of benzodiazepines in patients with a known or suspected history of substance abuse. To discourage abuse, prescribe the smallest appropriate quantity of the benzodiazepine and provide proper disposal instructions for unused drug. Avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants or other medications associated with addiction or abuse. Clinically significant physiological dependence may occur with continued use of benzodiazepines. The risks of dependence and withdrawal increase with longer treatment duration and higher daily dose. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of benzodiazepines after continued use may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening. Withdrawal symptoms may range from mild dysphoria and insomnia to a major withdrawal syndrome including abdominal and muscle cramps, vomiting, sweating, tremors, and seizures. In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months. Use a gradual dosage taper to lower the risk of withdrawal reactions when reducing the dose or discontinuing therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    respiratory depression
    General Information
    Respiratory depression can occur with benzodiazepine therapy, particularly with misuse, coadministration with other CNS depressants, or overdosage. Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids or alcohol may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    neonatal abstinence syndrome, neonatal respiratory depression
    General Information
    Benzodiazepines cross the placenta and may produce sedation, hypotonia, lethargy, and neonatal respiratory depression at birth. Monitor neonates exposed during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation, respiratory depression, hypotonia, and feeding problems. Neonatal withdrawal or a neonatal abstinence syndrome has also been reported following the ingestion of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines during the last weeks of pregnancy. Clinical manifestations of neonatal withdrawal may include hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties. These complications can appear shortly after delivery to 3 weeks after birth and persist from hours to several months, depending on the degree of dependence and pharmacokinetic profile of the benzodiazepine. Observe neonates who are exposed to benzodiazepines in utero during the later stages of pregnancy for symptoms of withdrawal and manage appropriately. Benzodiazepines should be withdrawn cautiously and slowly, using a very gradual dosage-tapering schedule.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal abstinence syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal respiratory depression
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Flurazepam is an oral benzodiazepine indicated for the short-term management of insomnia. Due to a longer half-life, prolonged use is less likely to cause rebound insomnia and tolerance to the hypnotic effect than are benzodiazepines with a shorter half-life (e.g., triazolam, oxazepam); however, flurazepam is more likely to cause residual daytime CNS-depressant effects. Benzodiazepines should generally be prescribed for short periods only due to the potential for dependence and cognitive impairment, and the availability of safer alternatives. The ASAM guidelines recommend re-evaluating the risks and benefits of ongoing benzodiazepine use at least every 3 months; for patients who are candidates for discontinuation, an individualized taper strategy should be used that considers dose, duration, and frequency of use. Due to the risks of dependence, daytime sedation, and possible effects on sleep architecture, the Veteran's Affairs/Departent of Defense (VA/DoD) guidelines for the management of chronic insomnia do not recommend the use of benzodiazepines. If possible, avoid coadministration of benzodiazepines and opioids due to the potential for profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death; patients receiving the combination should be monitored for respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, sedative-hypnotic medications have been associated with the development of complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., making phone calls, engaging in sexual activity, eating, or driving while not fully awake). All sedative-hypnotics have the potential to cause sleep-related behaviors; therefore, patients should be informed of the risks prior to receiving any medication from this class. Flurazepam was approved by the FDA in 1970.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Benzodiazepines act at the level of the limbic, thalamic, and hypothalamic regions of the CNS and can produce any level of CNS depression required including sedation, hypnosis, skeletal muscle relaxation, and anticonvulsant activity. Recent evidence indicates that benzodiazepines exert their effects through enhancement of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-benzodiazepine receptor complex. GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter that exerts its effects at specific receptor subtypes designated GABA-A and GABA-B. GABA-A is the primary receptor subtype in the CNS and is thought to be involved in the actions of anxiolytics and sedatives.
 
Specific benzodiazepine receptor subtypes are thought to be coupled to GABA-A receptors. Three types of BNZ receptors are located in the CNS and other tissues; the BNZ1 receptors are located in the cerebellum and cerebral cortex, the BNZ2 receptors in the cerebral cortex and spinal cord, and the BNZ3 receptors in peripheral tissues. Activation of the BNZ1 receptor is thought to mediate sleep while the BNZ2 receptor affects muscle relaxation, anticonvulsant activity, motor coordination, and memory. Benzodiazepines bind nonspecifically to BNZ1 and BNZ2 which ultimately enhances the effects of GABA. Unlike barbiturates which augment GABA responses by increasing the length of time that chloride channels are open, benzodiazepines enhance the effects of GABA by increasing GABA affinity for the GABA receptor. Binding of GABA to the site opens the chloride channel resulting in a hyperpolarized cell membrane that prevents further excitation of the cell.
 
Benzodiazepines alleviate insomnia by decreasing the latency to sleep and increasing sleep continuity and total sleep time through their effects on GABA.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Flurazepam is rapidly absorbed following an oral dose. Peak flurazepam plasma concentrations occur 30 to 60 minutes following a single dose.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Higher exposure and a prolonged half-life of flurazepam may occur in hepatically-impaired patients due to the high-extraction status of the drug; no specific pharmacokinetic studies are available.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Decreased elimination of active metabolites of flurazepam would be expected in individuals with significant renal dysfunction; no specific pharmacokinetic data are available.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Following single-dose administration of flurazepam, the elimination half-life for desalkyl-flurazepam was longer in geriatric adult males (160 hours) compared with younger males (74 hours), while values between geriatric female adults (120 hours) and younger females (90 hours) were not significantly different. After multiple dosing, mean steady-state serum concentrations were higher only in geriatric male subject (81 ng/mL) relative to younger male adults (53 ng/mL), while values were similar between geriatric female subjects (85 ng/mL) and younger female adults (86 ng/mL). The mean washout half-life of desalkyl-flurazepam was longer in geriatric male and female subjects (126 and 158 hours, respectively) compared with younger male and female subjects (111 and 113 hours, respectively).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    A few pharmacokinetic differences based on sex have been noted, primarily as described in geriatric pharmacokinetic studies.
  Text
  Flurazepam is administered orally. The drug distributes throughout the body and is 97% protein bound. The plasma half-life of flurazepam is only 2.3 hours; however, it is metabolized through oxidation to the active metabolites N1-desalkyl-flurazepam and N1-hydroxyethyl-flurazepam, which have half-lives of 47 to 100 hours and 2 to 4 hours, respectively. The major metabolite in blood is N1-desalkyl-flurazepam which reaches steady-state levels after approximately 7 to 10 days of dosing, at levels approximately 5- to 6-fold greater than the 24-hour levels observed on Day 1 of dosing. Excretion is primarily through the urine. The major urinary metabolite is conjugated N1-hydroxyethyl-flurazepam which accounts for 22% to 55% of a dose. Less than 1% of a dose is excreted in the urine as N1-desalkyl-flurazepam.
 
The pharmacokinetic profile may be responsible for the clinical observation that flurazepam is increasingly effective on the second or third night of consecutive use and that for 1 or 2 nights after the drug is discontinued both sleep latency and total wake time may still be decreased.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Flurazepam is a 2-keto benzodiazepine, and 2-keto benzodiazepines are partially oxidized by CYP3A4. Although detailed data for flurazepam is lacking, CYP3A4 is presumably involved in the metabolism of the drug.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer flurazepam at bedtime, right before retiring.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    30 mg/day PO at bedtime.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    15 mg/day PO at bedtime.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific recommendations are not available. Initiate with the lowest dosage and monitor for daytime sedation. Due to expected increases in exposure and a prolonged half-life of flurazepam, other agents for the treatment of insomnia may be preferred for individuals with significant hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific recommendations for dosage adjustment are not available. Initiate with the lowest dosage and monitor for daytime sedation if flurazepam must be used; prolonged use is not recommended. The active metabolites of flurazepam are renally excreted and the drug has an extended half-life due to these metabolites; therefore, other agents that have more study are usually recommended for those with significant renal impairment or renal failure.
