=== Artificial Tears — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 1199)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Artificial tears are ophthalmic preparations (solutions or ointments) used for the relief of dry eyes (xerophthalmia) and ocular irritation.

Routes: topical, ophthalmic; Common adult doses: No maximum dosage limit applies.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: It is recommended that contact lenses be removed prior to the administration of artificial tears products unless the product specifies that contact lenses may be worn in application. Patients with contact lenses who present with eye irritation should be evaluated by a practitioner prior to...

ARTIFICIAL TEARS

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Advanced Eye Relief, Akwa Tears, Akwa Tears Renewed, Alcon Tears, Altalube, Artificial Tears, Bion Tears, Blink Gel Tears, Blink Tears, Blink Triple Care, Clear eyes, Clear eyes Advance Dry and Itchy Relief, Clear eyes NIGHTTIME, Clear eyes Outdoor Dry Eye Protection, Eye Lubricant , FreshKote, Gen Teal Moderate to Severe, GenTeal , GenTeal Mild, GenTeal Moderate, GenTeal Night-time PM , GenTeal PF, GenTeal Severe, GenTeal Tears, GenTeal Tears Mild, GenTeal Tears Severe Dry Eye, GenTeal Tears Severe Night-Time , Gonak, Goniosoft, Hypo Tears , ImproVue, Isopto Tears, LiquiTears, LubriFresh P.M., Moisture Eyes, Moisture Eyes Preservative Free, Murine, Natural Balance Tears, Nature's Tears, Oasis Tears, Oasis Tears Plus, Ocucoat Viscoadherent, Opti-Free, Puralube Tears, Refresh, Refresh Celluvisc, Refresh Contacts Comfort, Refresh Endura, Refresh Lacri-Lube, Refresh Liquigel, Refresh Optive, Refresh Optive Sensitive, Refresh P.M., Refresh Plus, Refresh RELIEVA, Refresh RELIEVA PF, Refresh Tears, Refresh TEARS PF, Reliable-1 Luibricating Tears, Soothe HYDRATION, Soothe Lubricant Dry Eye Therapy, Soothe Nighttime, SootheXP, Sterilube Nighttime Relief, Stye, Stye Sterile Lubricant, Systane, Systane Balance, Systane Complete, Systane Nighttime, Systane Ultra, Teargen, Tears Naturale Forte, Tears Naturale Free, Tears Naturale II, Tears Renewed , TheraTears, Ventiva, Visine Dry Eye Relief, Visine Maximum Redness Relief, Visine Pure Tears, Visine Tears, Visine Tired Eye Relief, VISTA, Vista Gonio, Vista Meibo, Viva

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment and prevention of dry eye disease

Ophthalmic dosage (solution and gel)
Adults


1 to 2 drops into affected eye(s) once daily or more as needed.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


1 to 2 drops into affected eye(s) once daily or more as needed.


Ophthalmic dosage (ointment)
Adults


One-fourth inch into affected eye(s) once daily or more as needed.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


One-fourth inch into affected eye(s) once daily or more as needed.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

contact lenses


Some artificial tears solutions are formulated with preservatives (e.g., benzalkonium chloride) that may be absorbed by soft contact lenses. It is recommended that contact lenses be removed prior to the administration of artificial tears products unless the product specifies that contact lenses may be worn in application. Patients with contact lenses who present with eye irritation should be evaluated by a practitioner prior to self-treating the condition with artificial tears.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

General Information

Consult a health care professional for patient evaluation prior to use of artificial tears if corneal abrasion, ocular infection, foreign body trapping, or ocular trauma is suspected. If visual disturbance is present, the patient requires evaluation by a practitioner to determine appropriate treatment.

pregnancy


Artificial tears are not systemically absorbed and therefore not expected to cause fetal harm or adverse outcomes when used during pregnancy. Select preservative-free products when possible, and limit use to the lowest dosage and shortest duration feasible to treat the condition.


breast-feeding


Artificial tears are compatible with breast-feeding. Active ingredients are not systemically absorbed and therefore unlikely to cause harm to a breastfed child. Select preservative-free products when possible, and limit use to the lowest dosage and shortest duration feasible to treat the condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Artificial tears are not systemically absorbed and therefore not expected to cause fetal harm or adverse outcomes when used during pregnancy. Select preservative-free products when possible, and limit use to the lowest dosage and shortest duration feasible to treat the condition.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Artificial Tears products.

Adverse Reaction
blurred vision, contact dermatitis


Artificial tears products produce few side effects. Temporary stinging or blurred vision may occur on drop or ointment application; blurred vision upon application is commonly reported with the use of lubricant ointments. Irritation of ocular tissues typically does not occur with the vehicles commonly found in artificial tear solutions. Serious adverse reactions to artificial tears products, particularly lubricant ointments, are rare. Rarely, allergy or sensitivity, including contact dermatitis/allergy, can occur to specific product ingredients, such as preservatives in artificial tear solutions. A preservative-free product can limit the risk of a sensitivity reaction. Discontinue use of the specific product if ocular pain, ocular pruritus or other ocular irritation symptoms occur or worsen, or if the condition has not improved within 72 hours of use of the product; the patient should consult their health care professional for ophthalmic evaluation.


Description

Artificial tears are ophthalmic preparations (solutions or ointments) used for the relief of dry eyes (xerophthalmia) and ocular irritation. Selected lubricant products [containing a combination of tyloxapol and benzalkonium chloride (BAK)] can be used as a cleaning agent and lubricant for ophthalmic prostheses. Artificial tears have also served as a vehicle for ocular preparations of acetylcysteine used to treat giant papillary conjunctivitis (GPC), while artificial tears alone have been used for milder cases of this condition. Artificial tears products contain varying formulations that maintain ocular tonicity. Artificial tears solutions usually consist of a vehicle to stabilize the tear film and promote wetting; buffering agents, preservatives, pH content and other factors may vary from product to product. Popular vehicles found in artificial tear solutions include, but are not limited to, carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxymethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, methylcellulose, polyvinyl alcohol and povidone. Artificial tear ointments usually contain a bland (non-medicated) ophthalmic ointment vehicle to lubricate the eye; the primary ingredients are usually white petrolatum, mineral oil and lanolin. Modern artificial tear formulations were first developed in the mid-1940s with the introduction of synthetic methylcellulose, but historically, many agents had been tried clinically for hundreds of years to relieve dry eyes. Today, most products are available without a prescription in the United States. To date, an ideal replacement for the human tear layer has not been found.

Mechanism Of Action

The surface active properties of the vehicles found in artificial tears solutions act to stabilize the tear film and increase tear viscosity to prevent tear evaporation and retard tear drainage. Agents like povidone additionally mimic the action of mucin, the inner tear film layer that promotes wetting and adhesion of tears to the ocular surface. The vehicles found in bland lubricant artificial tear ointments also enhance the tear film and additionally have a prolonged duration of action in the eye versus artificial tear solutions.

Pharmacokinetics

Artificial tears solutions and ointments are applied topically to the eye.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Other Route(s)

Ophthalmic Route
Ointments are not systemically absorbed and contain no medicated ingredients. No pharmacokinetic data are available for ophthalmic solutions; it is expected that the formulas act locally and are not systemically absorbed.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Ophthalmic Administration


For topical ophthalmic application only. Do not ingest internally.
Wash hands well before use.
Remove contact lenses prior to use unless the product specifies that contact lenses may be worn in application (e.g., Clear Eyes CLR).
 
Artificial Tears ophthalmic solutions:
If the patient has other eye drops of any type prescribed along with artificial tears, separate the application of the different eye drops by roughly 5 minutes. This ensures that the eye drops do not interfere with each other. If the patient is administered both eye drops and an eye ointment, use the eye drops 10 minutes before the eye ointment so that the eye ointment does not interfere with the action of the drops.
Tilt the head back slightly and pull the lower eyelid down with the index finger to form a pouch. Squeeze the prescribed number of drops into the pouch and close eyes for 1—2 minutes.
Have the patient close the eye(s) gently for a few moments to allow contact.
Care should be taken to avoid contamination. Do not touch the tip of the dropper to the eye, fingertips, or other surface. Replace cap when not in use.
Use only one open bottle per patient to avoid contamination.
If the solution changes color or becomes cloudy, discontinue use and obtain a new bottle.
 
Artificial Tears ophthalmic ointments:
If the patient is administered both eye drops and an eye ointment, use the eye drops 10 minutes before the eye ointment so that the eye ointment does not interfere with the action of the drops.
Gently pull down the lower lid of the affected eye(s) and apply a small amount of ointment (roughly one-fourth (1/4) of an inch) to the inside of the eyelid.
Have the patient close the eye(s) gently for a few moments to allow contact.
Wipe away any excessive residue with a clean tissue.
Care should be taken to avoid contamination. Do not touch the tip of the tube to the eye, fingertips, or other surface. Replace cap when not in use.
Use only one open tube per patient to avoid contamination.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

No maximum dosage limit applies.

Elderly

No maximum dosage limit applies.

Adolescents

No maximum dosage limit applies.

Children

>= 6 years: No maximum dosage limit applies.
< 6 years: No maximum dosage limit applies; consult health care professional before use.

Dosage Forms

Artificial Eye Lubricant 15%-83% Ophthalmic Ointment

Artificial Tears 0.2%-0.2%-1% Ophthalmic Solution

Artificial Tears Lubricant 10mg/mL Eye Drops

CVS Dry Eye Relief 0.2%-0.2%-1% Eye Drops

GenTeal Moderate Ophthalmic Drops

Leader Dry Eye Relief Lubricant Eye Drops

LiquiTears 1.4% Ophthalmic Solution

LiquiTears 1.4% Ophthalmic Solution

LubriFresh P.M. Lubricant Eye Ointment

Polyvinyl Alcohol 1.4% Ophthalmic drops, solution

Today's Health Tears Eye Drops

Visine Dry Eye Relief 0.2%-0.2%-1% Ophthalmic Solution

Visine Tears 0.2%-0.2%-1% Ophthalmic Solution

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier