=== Dacomitinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5102)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Dacomitinib is an oral, irreversible epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) kinase inhibitor indicated as monotherapy for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 (L858R) substitution mutations.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 45 mg PO once daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cough, dyspnea, pneumonitis, oral ulceration, dysgeusia, weight loss, epistaxis, infection, rhinitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia, hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pulmonary disease Use dacomitinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in... Patient counseling: Initiate the use of moisturizers and appropriate measures to limit sun exposure at the time of initiation of dacomitinib therapy. Emetic risk: Minimal/Low

Brand Names
  - Vizimpro

Dosage Forms
  - VIZIMPRO 15mg Tablet
  - Vizimpro 30mg Tablet
  - Vizimpro 45mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        45 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial, patients with previously untreated, unresectable, metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 19 deletion or exon 21 (L858R) substitution, or recurrent disease after a minimum of 12 months after systemic therapy, were treated with dacomitinib (n = 227) or gefitinib (n = 225). Treatment with dacomitinib significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS) (14.7 months vs. 9.2 months). The overall response rate was similar between arms (75% vs. 72%), with a median duration of 14.8 months versus 8.3 months, respectively.
    Heading
    For the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 19 deletions or exon 21 (L858R) substitution mutations as detected by an FDA-approved test

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use dacomitinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with dacomitinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt dacomitinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Dacomitinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Disruption or depletion of EGFR in mouse models has shown that EGFR is critically important in reproductive and developmental processes, including blastocyst implantation, placental development, and embryo-fetal/post-natal survival and development. Reduction or elimination of embryo-fetal or maternal EGFR signaling in mice can prevent implantation and can cause embryo-fetal loss during various stages of gestation (through effects on placental development), developmental anomalies, early death in surviving fetuses, and adverse developmental outcomes in multiple organs in embryos/offspring. In rats, dacomitinib exposure during organogenesis resulted in an increased incidence of post-implantation loss and reduced fetal body weight at doses resulting in exposures approximately 1.2 times the human therapeutic exposure based on AUC. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with dacomitinib. Dacomitinib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking dacomitinib and for at least 17 days after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking dacomitinib and for at least 17 days after the last dose. Dacomitinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of dacomitinib in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Dacomitinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Disruption or depletion of EGFR in mouse models has shown that EGFR is critically important in reproductive and developmental processes, including blastocyst implantation, placental development, and embryo-fetal/post-natal survival and development. Reduction or elimination of embryo-fetal or maternal EGFR signaling in mice can prevent implantation and can cause embryo-fetal loss during various stages of gestation (through effects on placental development), developmental anomalies, early death in surviving fetuses, and adverse developmental outcomes in multiple organs in embryos/offspring. In rats, dacomitinib exposure during organogenesis resulted in an increased incidence of post-implantation loss and reduced fetal body weight at doses resulting in exposures approximately 1.2 times the human therapeutic exposure based on AUC. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking dacomitinib and for at least 17 days after the last dose. Dacomitinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of dacomitinib in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with dacomitinib may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, dihydromorphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations and increase dihydromorphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to dihydromorphine, and by CYP3A4. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with dacomitinib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of amoxapine, such as increased anticholinergic effects, if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of amoxapine. Amoxapine is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity, including serotonin syndrome, may be increased during concurrent use with dacomitinib. Concurrent use of dacomitinib, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, may increase exposure to the amphetamine increasing the risk for serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and dacomitinib should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity, including serotonin syndrome, may be increased during concurrent use with dacomitinib. Concurrent use of dacomitinib, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, may increase exposure to the amphetamine increasing the risk for serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and dacomitinib should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Amphetamines: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity, including serotonin syndrome, may be increased during concurrent use with dacomitinib. Concurrent use of dacomitinib, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, may increase exposure to the amphetamine increasing the risk for serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and dacomitinib should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and dacomitinib vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and dacomitinib vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg or for patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Atomoxetine: (Major) A lower initial dose of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving dacomitinib due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving dacomitinib, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving dacomitinib, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. Monitor for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, insomnia, and cardiac effects (e.g., hypertension, increased pulse rate, QT prolongation). Dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity, including serotonin syndrome, may be increased during concurrent use with dacomitinib. Concurrent use of dacomitinib, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, may increase exposure to the amphetamine increasing the risk for serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and dacomitinib should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) A brexpiprazole dosage reduction may be needed for some indications if brexpiprazole is coadministered with dacomitinib. For patients with schizophrenia, reduce the brexpiprazole dose to half the usual dose; reduce the brexpiprazole dose to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose if brexpiprazole and dacomitinib are also coadministered with a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor. No brexpiprazole dosage adjustment is needed for patients who are receiving brexpiprazole as adjunct treatment for major depressive disorder. Concomitant use may increase brexpiprazole exposure and risk for brexpiprazole-related adverse effects. Brexpiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer dacomitinib at least 6 hours before or 10 hours after famotidine. Taking these medications at the same time may reduce dacomitinib absorption and decrease its efficacy.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of carvedilol if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of carvedilol. Carvedilol is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Coadministration of dacomitinib with tramadol may decrease tramadol metabolism resulting in decreased tramadol efficacy and/or increased tramadol-induced risks of serotonin syndrome or seizures. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. The analgesic activity of tramadol is due to the activity of both the parent drug and the O-desmethyltramadol metabolite (M1), and M1 formation is dependent on CYP2D6. Therefore, use of tramadol with a CYP2D6-inhibitor may alter tramadol efficacy. In addition, inhibition of CYP2D6 metabolism is expected to result in reduced metabolic clearance of tramadol. This in turn may increase the risk of tramadol-related adverse events including serotonin syndrome and seizures. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Cevimeline: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of cevimeline if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of cevimeline. Cevimeline is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with dacomitinib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Administer dacomitinib at least 6 hours before or 10 hours after cimetidine. Taking these medications at the same time may reduce dacomitinib absorption and decrease its efficacy.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with dacomitinib and monitor for adverse reactions. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dacomitinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Do not exceed 18 mg/dose or 36 mg/day of deutetrabenazine if used concurrently with dacomitinib. Dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and the metabolites of deutetrabenazine, alpha- and beta-HTBZ, are CYP2D6 substrates. The systemic exposure of alpha- and beta-HTBZ may be increased resulting in an increase in deutetrabenazine-related adverse reactions, like QT prolongation and drowsiness.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dexlansoprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity, including serotonin syndrome, may be increased during concurrent use with dacomitinib. Concurrent use of dacomitinib, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, may increase exposure to the amphetamine increasing the risk for serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and dacomitinib should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of donepezil, such as GI or cholinergic adverse effects, if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of donepezil. Donepezil is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of donepezil, such as GI or cholinergic adverse effects, if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of donepezil. Donepezil is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dacomitinib with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a substrate of CYP2D6; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Clinically significant interactions have been reported when doxorubicin was coadministered with inhibitors of CYP2D6, resulting in increased concentration and clinical effects of doxorubicin.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dacomitinib with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a substrate of CYP2D6; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Clinically significant interactions have been reported when doxorubicin was coadministered with inhibitors of CYP2D6, resulting in increased concentration and clinical effects of doxorubicin.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased duloxetine-related adverse effects if coadministered with dacomitinib. Concurrent use may result in increased duloxetine exposure resulting in excessive serotonin activity. Dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; duloxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the duloxetine AUC by about 60%.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dacomitinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Eliglustat: (Major) In extensive or intermediate CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs or IMs), coadministration of dacomitinib and eliglustat requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily; however, coadministration of eliglustat with both dacomitinib and a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor is contraindicated. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6; eliglustat is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate. Coadministration of eliglustat with CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as dacomitinib, may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of esomeprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Famotidine: (Moderate) Administer dacomitinib at least 6 hours before or 10 hours after famotidine. Taking these medications at the same time may reduce dacomitinib absorption and decrease its efficacy.
Fenfluramine: (Major) Do not exceed a maximum dose of fenfluramine 20 mg per day if coadministered with dacomitinib; for patients also receiving stiripentol plus clobazam, do not exceed a maximum dose of fenfluramine 17 mg per day. Concomitant use may increase fenfluramine plasma concentrations and the risk of adverse reactions. Fenfluramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased fenfluramine overall exposure by 81% and decreased norfenfluramine overall exposure by 13%.
Flecainide: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of flecainide if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of flecainide. Flecainide is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Gefitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of haloperidol, such as extrapyramidal symptoms or QT prolongation, if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of haloperidol. Haloperidol is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with dacomitinib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with dacomitinib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with dacomitinib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Administer dacomitinib at least 6 hours before or 10 hours after famotidine. Taking these medications at the same time may reduce dacomitinib absorption and decrease its efficacy.
Iloperidone: (Major) Reduce the iloperidone dose by one-half if coadministered with dacomitinib. If dacomitinib is discontinued, increase the iloperidone dose to the previous level. Increased iloperidone exposure may occur with concurrent use. Iloperidone is a CYP2D6 substrate. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6. Coadministration of other strong CYP2D6 inhibitors increased mean steady-state peak concentrations of iloperidone and its metabolite P88, by up to 3-fold, and decreased mean steady-state peak concentrations of its metabolite P95 by one-half.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lansoprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lansoprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity, including serotonin syndrome, may be increased during concurrent use with dacomitinib. Concurrent use of dacomitinib, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, may increase exposure to the amphetamine increasing the risk for serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and dacomitinib should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for orthostatic hypotension and bradycardia during concurrent use of lofexidine and dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase lofexidine exposure. Lofexidine is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the lofexidine AUC by 28%.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of methadone with dacomitinib may increase methadone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of methadone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease methadone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to methadone. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Methadone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity, including serotonin syndrome, may be increased during concurrent use with dacomitinib. Concurrent use of dacomitinib, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, may increase exposure to the amphetamine increasing the risk for serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and dacomitinib should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Metoclopramide: (Major) Dose adjustments of oral metoclopramide are recommended when administered in combination with dacomitinib due to the risk of increased metoclopramide plasma concentrations and extrapyramidal adverse reactions. In patients with diabetic gastroparesis, avoid coadministration with dacomitinib. If coadministration cannot be avoided, the recommended dose of metoclopramide is 5 mg PO four times daily. In patients with gastroesophageal reflux, the recommended dose of metoclopramide is 5 mg PO four times daily or 10 mg PO three times daily when coadministered with dacomitinib. Metoclopramide is a substrate of CYP2D6 and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the metoclopramide Cmax and AUC by 40% and 90%, respectively.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for bradycardia, reduced blood pressure, and increased side effects of metoprolol if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may result in significantly increased metoprolol serum concentrations. An increase in metoprolol serum concentrations would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Metoprolol is a primary substrate of CYP2D6; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration of metoprolol with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers tripled the concentration of S-metoprolol and doubled the metoprolol elimination half-life.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for bradycardia, reduced blood pressure, and increased side effects of metoprolol if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may result in significantly increased metoprolol serum concentrations. An increase in metoprolol serum concentrations would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Metoprolol is a primary substrate of CYP2D6; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration of metoprolol with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers tripled the concentration of S-metoprolol and doubled the metoprolol elimination half-life.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of mexiletine if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of mexiletine. Mexiletine is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of esomeprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Nebivolol: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nebivolol and dacomitinib. If these drugs are coadministered, patients should be monitored for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect. Nebivolol is metabolized by CYP2D6; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. An 8-fold increase in the AUC and a 3-fold increase in Cmax for d-nebivolol was seen when nebivolol was coadministered with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Nizatidine: (Moderate) Administer dacomitinib at least 6 hours before or 10 hours after nizatidine. Taking these medications at the same time may reduce dacomitinib absorption and decrease its efficacy.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and dacomitinib is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and dacomitinib may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If dacomitinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Pantoprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pantoprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with dacomitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase paroxetine exposure. Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of perphenazine if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of perphenazine. Perphenazine is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of perphenazine if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of perphenazine. Perphenazine is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pimozide and dacomitinib is contraindicated. Coadministration may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pimozide exposure by 151%.
Pitolisant: (Major) A pitolisant dosage reduction may be required during concomitant dacomitinib use. For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Concomitant use may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for pitolisant-related adverse effects. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of primaquine and dacomitinib. Concurrent use may decrease the conversion of primaquine to its active metabolites which may reduce its efficacy. Primaquine is converted to active metabolites by CYP2D6 and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of dacomitinib is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 2.69-fold.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of propafenone if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of propafenone. Increased exposure to propafenone may lead to cardiac arrhythmias and exaggerated beta-adrenergic blocking activity. Propafenone is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Because of its metabolism, the combination of CYP3A4 inhibition and either CYP2D6 deficiency or CYP2D6 inhibition in users of propafenone is potentially hazardous. Therefore, avoid simultaneous use of propafenone with both a CYP2D6 inhibitor and a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of propranolol if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of propranolol. Propranolol is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
RABEprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rabeprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with rabeprazole decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in risperidone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dacomitinib is necessary and reduce risperidone dosage as appropriate based on response. For patients receiving long-acting risperidone dosage forms, an anticipatory dosage decrease may be considered prior to initiation of dacomitinib. Concomitant use may increase risperidone exposure. Risperidone is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP2D6 inhibitors increased risperidone overall exposure by 2.5- to 9-fold.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of tamoxifen if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary. Tamoxifen is metabolized by CYP2D6 to endoxifen and 4-hydroxytamoxifen, both of which are minor metabolites but have 100-fold greater affinity for the estrogen receptor and 30- to 100-fold greater potency in suppressing estrogen-dependent cell proliferation than tamoxifen. Dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In one study, the mean steady-state endoxifen plasma concentration was significantly reduced in patients taking CYP2D6 inhibitors compared to those not taking concomitant CYP2D6 inhibitors. In another study, the mean steady-state plasma concentration of endoxifen in CYP2D6 normal metabolizers who were not receiving CYP2D6 inhibitors were 3.6-fold higher compared to normal metabolizers who were receiving strong CYP2D6 inhibitors; plasma levels in CYP2D6 normal metabolizers receiving strong CYP2D6 inhibitors were similar to levels observed in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers taking no CYP2D6 inhibitors. Some studies have shown that the efficacy of tamoxifen may be reduced when concomitant drugs decrease the levels of potent active metabolites; however, others have failed to demonstrate such an effect. The clinical significance is not well established.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dacomitinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Do not exceed a maximum single dose of tetrabenazine of 25 mg and a daily dose of 50 mg when coadministered with dacomitinib. Additionally, monitor for adverse effects associated with tetrabenazine such as QT prolongation, excess sedation, and extrapyramidal symptoms. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of tetrabenazine. The primary metabolites of tetrabenazine, alpha-dihydrotetrabenzaine (alpha-HTBZ) and beta-dihydrotetrabenazine (beta-HTBZ), are substrates for CYP2D6. Dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration of tetrabenazine with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in an increase in Cmax of approximately 30% and a 3-fold increase in AUC for alpha-HTBZ. The Cmax and AUC for beta-HTBZ increased 2.4-fold and 9-fold, respectively. The elimination half-life of alpha-HTBZ and beta-HTBZ were increased to approximately 14 hours.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dacomitinib and thioridazine is contraindicated, as concurrent use may result in increased exposure to thioridazine. Elevated thioridazine concentrations would be expected to augment the prolongation of the QTc interval associated with thioridazine and may increase the risk of serious, potentially fatal, cardiac arrhythmias, such as torsade de pointes. Thioridazine is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Coadministration of dacomitinib with tramadol may decrease tramadol metabolism resulting in decreased tramadol efficacy and/or increased tramadol-induced risks of serotonin syndrome or seizures. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. The analgesic activity of tramadol is due to the activity of both the parent drug and the O-desmethyltramadol metabolite (M1), and M1 formation is dependent on CYP2D6. Therefore, use of tramadol with a CYP2D6-inhibitor may alter tramadol efficacy. In addition, inhibition of CYP2D6 metabolism is expected to result in reduced metabolic clearance of tramadol. This in turn may increase the risk of tramadol-related adverse events including serotonin syndrome and seizures. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Coadministration of dacomitinib with tramadol may decrease tramadol metabolism resulting in decreased tramadol efficacy and/or increased tramadol-induced risks of serotonin syndrome or seizures. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. The analgesic activity of tramadol is due to the activity of both the parent drug and the O-desmethyltramadol metabolite (M1), and M1 formation is dependent on CYP2D6. Therefore, use of tramadol with a CYP2D6-inhibitor may alter tramadol efficacy. In addition, inhibition of CYP2D6 metabolism is expected to result in reduced metabolic clearance of tramadol. This in turn may increase the risk of tramadol-related adverse events including serotonin syndrome and seizures. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; dacomitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Valbenazine: (Major) Consider reducing the dose of valbenazine, based on tolerability, during co-administration with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, such as dacomitinib. QT prolongation is not clinically significant at valbenazine concentrations expected with recommended dosing; however, concentrations of the active metabolite of valbenazine may be higher in patients taking a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and QT prolongation may become clinically significant.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of venlafaxine if coadministered with dacomitinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of venlafaxine. Venlafaxine is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dacomitinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of dacomitinib reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dacomitinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of dacomitinib reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dacomitinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of dacomitinib reducing its efficacy.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Reduce the vortioxetine dose by one-half during coadministration with dacomitinib. Increase the dose back to the original level when dacomitinib is discontinued. Coadministration may increase vortioxetine serum concentrations. Vortioxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dacomitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Severe and fatal interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis occurred in 0.5% of patients treated with dacomitinib in 4 randomized, active-controlled clinical trials (n = 394); 0.3% of cases were fatal. In the largest of these studies, ILD occurred in 2.6% of patients treated with dacomitinib (n = 227) and was among the most common serious adverse reactions (1.3%); 1.8% of patients in this trial permanently discontinued therapy due to ILD. Monitor patients for pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis. Interrupt dacomitinib therapy and promptly investigate for ILD in patients who present with worsening of respiratory symptoms (e.g., dyspnea, cough, and fever). Cough occurred in 21% of patients treated with dacomitinib compared with 19% (grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) of those who received gefitinib in this study; dyspnea occurred in 13% of patients in both arms (grade 3 or 4, 2.2% vs. 1.8%, respectively). Permanently discontinue dacomitinib if a diagnosis of ILD is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    diarrhea
    General Information
    Diarrhea is the most common adverse reaction associated with dacomitinib, occurring in 86% (grade 3 or 4, 11%) of patients treated with dacomitinib across 4 clinical trials (n = 394); 0.3% of cases were fatal. In the largest of these clinical trials, diarrhea was reported in 87% (grade 3 or 4, 8%) of patients treated with dacomitinib (n = 227) compared with 56% (grade 3 or 4, 0.9%) of those who received gefitinib (n = 224), including one fatal event in the dacomitinib arm. Diarrhea led to permanent discontinuation in 0.9% of patients who received dacomitinib. Higher exposures, across the range of exposures with the recommended dose of 45 mg daily, correlated with an increased probability of grade 3 or higher diarrhea. Promptly initiate anti-diarrheal treatment (e.g., loperamide or diphenoxylate hydrochloride with atropine sulfate) for diarrhea. An interruption of therapy or dose reduction may be necessary, depending on the severity of diarrhea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, nausea, oral ulceration, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    Stomatitis, including mucosal inflammation, occurred in 45% (grade 3 or 4, 4.4%) of patients treated with dacomitinib (n = 227) compared with 19% (grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) who received gefitinib (n = 224) in a randomized clinical trial; grade 1 or 2 oral ulceration was additionally reported in 12% versus 6% of patients, respectively. Nausea (all grade, 19% vs. 22%) and constipation (grade 1 or 2, 13% vs. 14%) occurred more often in the gefitinib arm, although grade 3 or 4 nausea was more common with dacomitinib (1.3% vs. 0.4%). Vomiting also occurred in 9% of patients treated with dacomitinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acneiform rash, alopecia, exfoliative dermatitis, hypertrichosis, maculopapular rash, onycholysis, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, xerosis
    General Information
    Rash occurred in 78% (grade 3 or 4, 21%) of patients treated with dacomitinib across 4 clinical trials (n = 394); exfoliative dermatitis was reported in 7% (grade 3 or 4, 1.8%) of patients in this trial. In the largest of these 4 trials, rash, including acneiform rash and maculopapular rash (all grade, 69%; grade 3 or 4, 23%) and paronychia, including nail toxicity, onychoclasis, onycholysis, and onychomadesis, (all grade, 64%; grade 3 or 4, 8%) were among the most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients treated with dacomitinib (n = 227); both occurred more frequently with dacomitinib compared with gefitinib (rash, all grade, 47%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) (paronychia, all grade, 21%; grade 3 or 4, 1.3%). Additional dermatologic adverse reactions reported with dacomitinib therapy included xerosis (all grade, 30%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%), alopecia (all grade, 23%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), pruritus (all grade, 21%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%), palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) (all grade, 15%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%), and dermatitis (all grade, 11%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%), skin fissures (9%), hypertrichosis (1.3%), and skin exfoliation/exfoliative dermatitis (3.5%). The incidence and severity of skin reactions may increase with sun exposure (photosensitivity); at the initiation of therapy, begin use of moisturizers and limit sun exposure. Higher exposures, across the range of exposures with the recommended dose of 45 mg daily, correlated with an increased probability of grade 3 or higher dermatologic toxicities. An interruption of therapy or dose reduction may be necessary, depending on the severity of the rash.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertrichosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      onycholysis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, dysgeusia, weight loss
    General Information
    Anorexia (all grade, 31% vs. 25%; grade 3 or 4, 3.1% vs. 0.4%) and weight loss (all grade, 26% vs. 17%; grade 3 or 4, 2.2% vs. 0.4%) occurred more often with dacomitinib therapy (n = 227) compared with gefitinib (n = 224) in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial. Dysgeusia was also reported in 7% of patients treated with dacomitinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    conjunctivitis, keratitis
    General Information
    Mild conjunctivitis occurred more often with dacomitinib therapy (n = 227) compared with gefitinib (n = 224) in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial (grade 1 or 2, 19% vs. 4%). Keratitis was also reported in 1.8% of patients treated with dacomitinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      keratitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Pain, including pain in extremities (grade 1 or 2, 14% vs. 12%) and musculoskeletal pain (all grade, 12% to 13%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9% vs. 0%) occurred with a similar frequency in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC treated with dacomitinib (n = 227) compared with gefitinib (n = 224) in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Asthenia occurred with a similar frequency in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC treated with dacomitinib (n = 227) compared with gefitinib (n = 224) in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial (all grade, 13% to 13%; grade 3 or 4, 2.2% vs. 1.3%). Fatigue was also reported in 9% of patients who received dacomitinib therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    insomnia
    General Information
    Insomnia occurred less often with dacomitinib therapy (n = 227) compared with gefitinib (n = 224) in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial (all grade, 11% vs. 15%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4% vs. 0%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    epistaxis, infection, rhinitis
    General Information
    Mild nasal mucosal disorders, including epistaxis, nasal inflammation, nasal mucosal ulcer, and rhinitis occurred more often with dacomitinib therapy (n = 227) compared with gefitinib (n = 224) in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial (grade 1 or 2, 19% vs. 4.9%). The incidence of upper respiratory infection was similar between treatment arms (all grade, 12% vs. 13%; grade 3 or 4, 1.3% vs. 0%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified)
    General Information
    Mild chest pain (unspecified) occurred less often with dacomitinib therapy (n = 227) compared with gefitinib (n = 224) in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial (grade 1 or 2, 10% vs. 14%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dehydration
    General Information
    Dehydration was reported in 1.3% of patients treated with dacomitinib (n = 227) in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia
    General Information
    Anemia (all grade, 44% vs. 26%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9% vs. 2.7%) and lymphopenia (all grade, 42% vs. 35%; grade 3 or 4, 6% vs. 2.7%) occurred more often in patients who received dacomitinib therapy (n = 227) compared with gefitinib (n = 224) in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes occurred less often with dacomitinib therapy (n = 227) compared with gefitinib (n = 224) in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial, including increased ALT (all grade, 40% vs. 63%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4% vs. 13%), increased AST (all grade, 35% vs. 57%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5% vs. 8%), and hyperbilirubinemia (all grade, 16% vs. 22%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5% vs. 0.5%). Hypoalbuminemia (grade 1 or 2, 44%) and increased alkaline phosphatase (all grade, 22%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) were also reported in patients treated with dacomitinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia
    General Information
    Electrolyte abnormalities reported in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC treated with dacomitinib (n = 227) in a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial include hyperglycemia (all grade, 36%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), hypocalcemia (all grade, 33%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4%), hypokalemia (all grade, 29%; grade 3 or 4, 7%), hyponatremia (all grade, 26%; grade 3 or 4, 2.9%), and hypomagnesemia (all grade, 22%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%). Grade 1 or 2 increases in serum creatinine were also reported in 24% of patients who received dacomitinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Dacomitinib is an oral, irreversible epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) kinase inhibitor indicated as monotherapy for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 (L858R) substitution mutations. EGFR is expressed, overexpressed, or dysregulated in many cancers; clinically, EGFR expression has been associated with poor prognosis, development of metastasis, and resistance to chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, and radiation therapy. Monitor for diarrhea, dermatologic reactions, and symptoms of pneumonitis; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Dacomitinib irreversibly inhibits the kinase activity of the human EGFR family (EGFR/HER1, HER2, and HER4) and certain activating mutations (exon 19 deletion or exon 21 (L858R) substitution mutations). Dacomitinib demonstrated dose-dependent inhibition of EGFR and HER2 autophosphorylation and tumor growth in mice bearing subcutaneously implanted human tumor xenografts driven by HER family targets including mutated EGFR. Dacomitinib also exhibited antitumor activity in orally-dosed mice bearing intracranial human tumor xenografts driven by EGFR amplifications. In vitro, it also inhibitor the activity of DDR1, EPHA6, LCK, DDR2, and MNK1 at clinically relevant concentrations.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The mean absolute bioavailability of dacomitinib is 80% after oral administration. The maximum concentration (Cmax) and AUC at steady-state increased proportionally over the dose range of 2 mg to 60 mg by mouth once daily (0.04 to 1.3 times the recommended dose) in patients with cancer. In a dose-finding clinical study in patients with solid tumors, the geometric mean Cmax of dacomitinib at steady-state was 108 ng/mL (CV, 35%) and the AUC was 2,213 ng x h/mL (CV, 35%) at the recommended dose of 45 mg once daily. The median time to reach maximum concentration (Tmax) occurred at approximately 6 hours (range, 2 to 24 hours) after a single 45 mg dose in patients with cancer. Steady-state was achieved within 14 days following repeated dosing; the estimated geometric mean accumulation ratio was 5.7 (CV, 28%) based on AUC. The steady-state plasma trough concentration of the active metabolite, O-desmethyl dacomitinib, ranged from 7.9% to 19% of the parent. Administration with a high-fat, high-calorie meal had no clinically meaningful effect on dacomitinib pharmacokinetics.
 
Gastric pH has an impact on dacomitinib exposure. Coadministration with a proton-pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax by 51% and AUC by 39%; however, coadministration with a local antacid did not cause clinically relevant changes in dacomitinib exposure. The effect of H2 receptor antagonists on dacomitinib pharmacokinetics has not been studied.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild and moderate hepatic impairment have no clinically important effects on the pharmacokinetics of dacomitinib. In a dedicated hepatic impairment trial, dacomitinib exposure was unchanged in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A; n = 8) compared to subjects with normal hepatic function (n = 8); the Cmax and AUC were increased by 20% and 15%, respectively, in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B; n = 9). Additionally, no effects on the pharmacokinetics of dacomitinib were observed in a population pharmacokinetic analysis of 1,381 patients in which 158 patients had mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than or equal to 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) and any AST) and 5 patients had moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin 1.6 to 3 times ULN and any AST). The effects of severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN and any AST) on dacomitinib pharmacokinetics is unknown.
  Text
  Dacomitinib is administered orally. In vitro binding to human plasma proteins is approximately 98% and is independent of drug concentrations from 250 ng/mL to 1,000 ng/mL. The geometric mean volume of distribution (Vd) of dacomitinib at steady state was 1,889 L (coefficient of variation (CV), 18%). Following a single oral dose in patients with cancer, the mean plasma half-life was 70 hours (CV, 21%) and the geometric mean apparent plasma clearance was 24.9 L/h (CV, 36%). Hepatic metabolism is the main route of clearance of dacomitinib, with oxidation and glutathione conjugation as the major pathways. Following oral administration of a single radiolabelled dose, O-desmethyl dacomitinib was the most abundant circulating metabolite, which had similar in vitro pharmacologic activity as dacomitinib. Seventy-nine percent (79%) of the radioactivity was recovered in feces (20% as unchanged drug) and 3% in urine (less than 1% as unchanged drug).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP2D6, CYP3A4
In vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 was the major isoenzyme involved in the formation of O-desmethyl dacomitinib, while CYP3A4 contributed to the formation of other minor oxidative metabolites. However, coadministration with multiple doses of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor in healthy subjects increased the total AUC of dacomitinib plus O-desmethyl dacomitinib in plasma by approximately 6%, which is not considered clinically relevant. Dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, increasing the Cmax and AUC of dextromethorphan (a CYP2D6 substrate) by 9.7-fold and 9.6-fold, respectively. In vitro, dacomitinib inhibits UGT 1A1, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, and OCT1; is a substrate for P-gp and BCRP.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
Patient Counseling
Initiate the use of moisturizers and appropriate measures to limit sun exposure at the time of initiation of dacomitinib therapy.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Dacomitinib may be administered with or without food.
Take dacomitinib at the same time each day.
If the patient vomits or misses a dose, do not administer an additional dose or make up a missed dose. Continue with the next scheduled dose.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    45 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    45 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild or moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than or equal to the upper limit of normal (ULN) with AST greater than ULN; OR total bilirubin 1.1 to 3 times ULN and any AST): No dose adjustment is recommended.
Severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN and any AST): The recommended dose of dacomitinib has not been established.
  Renal Impairment
  Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCL 30 to 89 mL/min): No dosage adjustment is recommended.
Severe renal impairment (CrCL less than 30 mL/min): The recommended dose of dacomitinib has not been established.
