=== Ubrogepant (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5187)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ubrogepant is an oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 200 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, dyspnea, pruritus, rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Ubrogepant dose adjustment is recommended for individuals with hepatic failure or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C); ubrogepant exposure was increased by 115% in this population. This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of...

Brand Names
  - Ubrelvy

Dosage Forms
  - Ubrelvy 100mg Tablet
  - UBRELVY 50mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Guideline indications for initiating acute treatment with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists:
Contraindications to or inability to tolerate serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") or
Inadequate response to at least 2 oral triptans, as determined by either health care provider attestation or a validated acute treatment patient-reported outcome questionnaire (e.g., mTOQ, Migraine-ACT, PPMQ-R, FIS, PGIC).
 
Guideline criteria for continuation of acute treatment with CGRP receptor antagonists:
Continue coverage until at least 3 attacks are treated to assess efficacy and tolerability.
Base treatment continuation decisions on the average monthly headache frequency and clinical assessment of improvement by a health care provider or response to a validated acute treatment patient-reported outcome questionnaire.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        50 or 100 mg PO once. A second dose may be taken at least 2 hours after the initial dose if needed. Max: 200 mg/day. The safety of treating more than 8 migraines within 30 days has not been established. Coadministration of certain other drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Guidelines classify ubrogepant as having established efficacy for the treatment of acute migraine.
    Heading
    For the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Ubrogepant dose adjustment is recommended for individuals with hepatic failure or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C); ubrogepant exposure was increased by 115% in this population.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    The renal route of elimination plays a minor role in the clearance of ubrogepant. Dose adjustment is recommended for individuals with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute). Avoid ubrogepant use in individuals with renal failure or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute).
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Monitor individuals with pre-existing hypertension for worsening of hypertension during treatment with ubrogepant. Consider whether discontinuation of ubrogepant is warranted if evaluation fails to establish an alternative etiology for worsening of hypertension or blood pressure is inadequately controlled.
    Headline
    Raynaud's phenomenon
    General Information
    Monitor individuals with a history of Raynaud phenomenon for, and inform them about the possibility of, worsening or recurrence of signs and symptoms during treatment with ubrogepant. Discontinue ubrogepant if signs or symptoms of Raynaud phenomenon develop, and evaluate individuals if symptoms do not resolve.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with ubrogepant use during human pregnancy. Individuals with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension during pregnancy. In pregnant rabbits, ubrogepant (0, 15, 45, 75, or 250 mg/kg/day) administered orally throughout organogenesis resulted in abortion and increased embryofetal mortality in surviving offspring at the highest dose tested (250 mg/kg/day). Plasma exposure (AUC) at the highest no-effect dose (75 mg/kg/day) for adverse effects on embryofetal development in rabbits is approximately 8 times that in humans at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). Oral administration of ubrogepant (0, 25, 60, or 160 mg/kg/day) throughout gestation and lactation resulted in decreased body weight in the offspring of pregnant rats at birth and during the lactation period at the mid and high doses. Plasma exposure (AUC) at the no-effect dose for adverse effects on pre- and postnatal development in rats (25 mg/kg/day) is approximately 15 times that in humans at the MRHD. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in individuals exposed to ubrogepant during pregnancy. Encourage participation and advise individuals to get more information or enroll in the registry by visiting empresspregnancyregistry.com or calling 1-833-277-0206.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use ubrogepant with caution during breast-feeding. Low concentrations are present in human milk. The estimated relative infant dose is approximately 0.15% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose, and the milk-to-plasma ratio is 0.23. After a single oral dose of ubrogepant 100 mg, 17% of lactating individuals had detectable levels of ubrogepant in their milk 16 to 24 hours after dosing. The mean cumulative amount of ubrogepant excreted in milk over 24 hours was less than 0.02 mg of a 100 mg dose. There are no data on the effects of ubrogepant on the breastfed child or its effects on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for ubrogepant and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from ubrogepant or the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with ubrogepant use during human pregnancy. Individuals with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension during pregnancy. In pregnant rabbits, ubrogepant (0, 15, 45, 75, or 250 mg/kg/day) administered orally throughout organogenesis resulted in abortion and increased embryofetal mortality in surviving offspring at the highest dose tested (250 mg/kg/day). Plasma exposure (AUC) at the highest no-effect dose (75 mg/kg/day) for adverse effects on embryofetal development in rabbits is approximately 8 times that in humans at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). Oral administration of ubrogepant (0, 25, 60, or 160 mg/kg/day) throughout gestation and lactation resulted in decreased body weight in the offspring of pregnant rats at birth and during the lactation period at the mid and high doses. Plasma exposure (AUC) at the no-effect dose for adverse effects on pre- and postnatal development in rats (25 mg/kg/day) is approximately 15 times that in humans at the MRHD. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in individuals exposed to ubrogepant during pregnancy. Encourage participation and advise individuals to get more information or enroll in the registry by visiting empresspregnancyregistry.com or calling 1-833-277-0206.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use ubrogepant with caution during breast-feeding. Low concentrations are present in human milk. The estimated relative infant dose is approximately 0.15% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose, and the milk-to-plasma ratio is 0.23. After a single oral dose of ubrogepant 100 mg, 17% of lactating individuals had detectable levels of ubrogepant in their milk 16 to 24 hours after dosing. The mean cumulative amount of ubrogepant excreted in milk over 24 hours was less than 0.02 mg of a 100 mg dose. There are no data on the effects of ubrogepant on the breastfed child or its effects on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for ubrogepant and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from ubrogepant or the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with acalabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and adagrasib is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Amiodarone: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with amiodarone. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp and CYP3A substrate and amiodarone is a P-gp and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with amobarbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; amobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and clarithromycin is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with aprepitant. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. When administered as a single oral or single intravenous dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak and did not result in a clinically significant increase in the AUC of a sensitive substrate. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Armodafinil: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with armodafinil as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Asciminib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and BCRP substrate; asciminib is a weak CYP3A and BCRP inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and atazanavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and atazanavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and cobicistat is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Avacopan: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with avacopan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Azithromycin: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with azithromycin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate and azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Belumosudil: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Belzutifan: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with belzutifan as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; belzutifan is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Berotralstat: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with berotralstat. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Bexarotene: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with bexarotene as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Bicalutamide: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with bicalutamide. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; bicalutamide is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with lenacapavir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Bosentan: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with bosentan as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Brigatinib: (Major) Ubrogepant dose adjustment is necessary if coadministered with brigatinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and side effects. Ubrogepant is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, and CYP3A substrate; brigatinib is a P-gp and BRCP inhibitor and a weak CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Cannabidiol: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with cannabidiol. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Capivasertib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with capivasertib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; capivasertib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with capmatinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) drug transporters; capmatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and carbamazepine as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Carvedilol: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with carvedilol. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; carvedilol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Cenobamate: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with cenobamate as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ceritinib is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and chloramphenicol is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Cimetidine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with cimetidine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; cimetidine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with ciprofloxacin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and clarithromycin is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
cloBAZam: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with clobazam as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; clobazam is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and cobicistat is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Cocaine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with cocaine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; cocaine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with conivaptan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Crizotinib: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with crizotinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with cyclosporine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4, BCRP, and P-gp substrate; cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with dabrafenib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with quinupristin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; quinupristin is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Danazol: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with danazol. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; danazol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Danicopan: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with danicopan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and danicopan is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with daraxonrasib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate and daraxonrasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daridorexant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with daridorexant. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; daridorexant is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Darolutamide: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with darolutamide. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; darolutamide is a BCRP inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and darunavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and cobicistat is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and darunavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and cobicistat is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and darunavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Deferasirox: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with deferasirox as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; deferasirox is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
dexAMETHasone: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with dexamethasone as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; dexamethasone is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with quinidine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with diltiazem. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Dronedarone: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with dronedarone. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Duvelisib: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with duvelisib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Efavirenz: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with efavirenz as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with efavirenz as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with efavirenz as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elacestrant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with elacestrant. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp; elacestrant is an inhibitor of BCRP and P-gp.
Elafibranor: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with elafibranor as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix: (Major) Ubrogepant dose adjustment is necessary if coadministered with elagolix as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and side effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; elagolix is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Ubrogepant dose adjustment is necessary if coadministered with elagolix as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and side effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; elagolix is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with elbasvir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; elbasvir is a BCRP inhibitor. (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with grazoprevir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and BCRP substrate; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a BCRP inhibitor.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with eliglustat. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with elinzanetant. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Eltrombopag: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with eltrombopag. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; eltrombopag is a BCRP inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and cobicistat is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and cobicistat is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ubrogepant and enasidenib due to the risk for unpredictable effects on ubrogepant concentrations. Concurrent use may alter ubrogepant exposure and decrease its efficacy or increase the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor and weak CYP3A inducer. The net effect on ubrogepant exposure is unknown.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ubrogepant and encorafenib due to altered ubrogepant exposure. Concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and BCRP substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer and BCRP inhibitor. The net effect on ubrogepant exposure is unknown. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ensitrelvir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase ubrogepant overall exposure.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and enzalutamide as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with erdafitinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Erythromycin: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with erythromycin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with eslicarbazepine as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Etravirine: (Major) Ubrogepant dose adjustment is necessary if coadministered with etravirine as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and side effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; etravirine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Everolimus: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with everolimus. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; everolimus is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with fedratinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Finerenone: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Flibanserin: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with flibanserin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; flibanserin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fluconazole: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with fluconazole. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with fluoxetine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; fluoxetine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with fluvoxamine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with fosamprenavir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and fosphenytoin as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with fostemsavir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with gepotidacin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; gilteritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Givinostat: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with givinostat. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; givinostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with glecaprevir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; glecaprevir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with pibrentasvir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; pibrentasvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Glycerol Phenylbutyrate: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with glycerol phenylbutyrate as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; glycerol phenylbutyrate is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during ubrogepant treatment due to the risk for increased ubrogepant exposure and adverse reactions. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Ibrutinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with ibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; ibrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and idelalisib is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Imatinib: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with imatinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with isavuconazonium. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with isoniazid. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; isoniazid is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Istradefylline: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with istradefylline. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; istradefylline is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and itraconazole is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Ivacaftor: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ketoconazole is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and clarithromycin is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Lapatinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with lapatinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; lapatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with larotrectinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; larotrectinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lasmiditan: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with lasmiditan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lazertinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with lazertinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP and CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with ledipasvir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; ledipasvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with oral lefamulin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate, and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Leflunomide: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with leflunomide. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; leflunomide is a BCRP inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with lenacapavir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Leniolisib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with leniolisib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP substrate and leniolisib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with letermovir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Levacetylleucine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with levacetylleucine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ketoconazole is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Lomitapide: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with lomitapide. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and lonafarnib is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; lonafarnib is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ritonavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with lorlatinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and lumacaftor as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure. (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and lumacaftor as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Maribavir: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; maribavir is a P-gp, BCRP, and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Mavacamten: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with mavacamten as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with mavorixafor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with mefloquine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; mefloquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Meropenem: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with meropenem as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with meropenem as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Methohexital: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with methohexital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; methohexital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Midostaurin: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and mifepristone is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Mitapivat: (Major) Ubrogepant dose adjustment is necessary if coadministered with mitapivat as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and side effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and mitotane as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with mobocertinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Modafinil: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with modafinil as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Momelotinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with momelotinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP substrate and momelotinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Nafcillin: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with nafcillin as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and nefazodone is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and nelfinavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Neratinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with neratinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with netupitant. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Nevirapine: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with nevirapine as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; nevirapine is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
NiCARdipine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with nicardipine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; nicardipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with nilotinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ritonavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and ubrogepant is contraindicated due to the potential for serious adverse reactions; consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase ubrogepant exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with nirogacestat. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Odevixibat: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with odevixibat as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; odevixibat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with fluoxetine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; fluoxetine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with olutasidenib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; olutasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with omaveloxolone as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with rifabutin as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Orforglipron: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with orforglipron. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP substrate and orforglipron is a BCRP inhibitor.
Oritavancin: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with oritavancin as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with osilodrostat. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Osimertinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with osimertinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; osimertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Oteseconazole: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with oteseconazole. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of BCRP; oteseconazole is a BCRP inhibitor.
OXcarbazepine: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with oxcarbazepine as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; oxcarbazepine is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Pacritinib: (Major) An ubrogepant dosage adjustment may be necessary if coadministered with pacritinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and side effects. The net effect on overall ubrogepant exposure is unpredictable. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Palbociclib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with palbociclib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; palbociclib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with pazopanib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; pazopanib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with pexidartinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and phenobarbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and phenobarbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and phenytoin as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with pirtobrutinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and posaconazole is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Pretomanid: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Primaquine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with primaquine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; primaquine is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and primidone as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Propafenone: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with propafenone. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; propafenone is a P-gp inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with quinidine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor.
quiNINE: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with quinine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; quinine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Quizartinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with quizartinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with ranolazine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ranolazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Regorafenib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with regorafenib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; regorafenib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and relacorilant is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Remdesivir: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with remdesivir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; remdesivir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with repotrectinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Resmetirom: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with resmetirom. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP substrate and resmetirom is a BCRP inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ribociclib is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ribociclib is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Rifabutin: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with rifabutin as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and rifampin as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and rifapentine as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk for ubrogenpant-related adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in ubrogepant overall exposure.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ritonavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Rucaparib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with rucaparib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with saquinavir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; saquinavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sarecycline: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with sarecycline. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; sarecycline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Secobarbital: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with secobarbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; secobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with selpercatinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; selpercatinib is a weak CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk for ubrogepant-related adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ubrogepant and taurursodiol due to unpredictable effects. Concurrent use may alter ubrogepant exposure and decrease its efficacy and/or increase the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor and weak CYP3A inducer. The net effect on ubrogepant exposure is unknown.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with velpatasvir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; velpatasvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with velpatasvir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; velpatasvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with voxilaprevir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; voxilaprevir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
SORAfenib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with sorafenib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; sorafenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of sotorasib and ubrogepant due to unpredictable effects. Coadministration may alter the exposure of ubrogepant resulting in decreased efficacy or increased toxicity. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4, BCRP, and P-gp substrate; sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Sparsentan: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Spironolactone: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with spironolactone. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; spironolactone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with spironolactone. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; spironolactone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and St. John's Wort as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Stiripentol: (Major) Ubrogepant dose adjustment is necessary if coadministered with stiripentol as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and side effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and stiripentol is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Streptogramins: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with quinupristin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; quinupristin is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
sulfaSALAzine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with sulfasalazine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; sulfasalazine is a BCRP inhibitor.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with suzetrigine as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with tacrolimus. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; tacrolimus is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tafamidis: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with tafamidis. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; tafamidis is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with tazemetostat as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; tazemetostat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Tecovirimat: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with tecovirimat as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; tecovirimat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Tedizolid: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with tedizolid. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; tedizolid is a BCRP inhibitor.
Telotristat Ethyl: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with telotristat as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; telotristat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Temsirolimus: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with temsirolimus. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tepotinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with tepotinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with teriflunomide. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; teriflunomide is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with ticagrelor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and BRCP substrate; ticagrelor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor and BCRP inhibitor.
Tovorafenib: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with tovorafenib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with verapamil. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with verapamil resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Treosulfan: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with treosulfan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; treosulfan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Trofinetide: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and tucatinib is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Vadadustat: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with vadadustat. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP substrate and vadadustat is a BCRP inhibitor.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Major) Ubrogepant dose adjustment is necessary if coadministered with valproic acid as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and side effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; valproic acid is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with vemurafenib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-gp drug transporters; vemurafenib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with venetoclax. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; venetoclax is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with vepdegestrant. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with verapamil. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with verapamil resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Viloxazine: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with viloxazine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vimseltinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with vimseltinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with voclosporin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate; voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with vonoprazan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with vonoprazan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and clarithromycin is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant. (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with vonoprazan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with vorasidenib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and voriconazole is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Voxelotor: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Zafirlukast: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with zafirlukast. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; zafirlukast is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with zanubrutinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; zanubrutinib is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with ziftomenib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Zongertinib: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with zongertinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP substrate and zongertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Zonisamide: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with zonisamide. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; zonisamide is a P-gp inhibitor.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    nausea
    General Information
    In clinical trials, nausea occurred in 2% of subjects given ubrogepant 50 mg (n = 954), 4% of subjects given 100 mg (n = 485), and 2% of subjects given placebo (n = 984). Nausea was the most common adverse reaction resulting in treatment discontinuation during a long-term safety study in 813 subjects who received ubrogepant intermittently for up to 1 year.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    In clinical trials, somnolence, including sedation and fatigue, occurred in 2% of subjects given ubrogepant 50 mg (n = 954), 3% of subjects given 100 mg (n = 485), and 1% of subjects given placebo (n = 984).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    xerostomia
    General Information
    In clinical trials, xerostomia occurred in less than 1% of subjects given ubrogepant 50 mg (n = 954), 2% of subjects given 100 mg (n = 485), and 1% of subjects given placebo (n = 984).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, dyspnea, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, facial or throat edema (angioedema similar events), rash, urticaria, and pruritus have been reported during postmarketing experience with ubrogepant. Hypersensitivity reactions can occur minutes, hours, or days after uborgepant administration. Most observed reactions occurred within hours after administration and were not serious. If a serious or severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, institute appropriate therapy and discontinue ubrogepant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Development of hypertension and worsening of preexisting hypertension have been reported with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antagonists, including ubrogepant, during postmarketing surveillance. Some subjects who developed new-onset hypertension had risk factors for hypertension. There were cases requiring initiation of pharmacological treatment for hypertension or hospitalization. Hypertension may occur at any time during treatment, but it was most frequently reported within 7 days of therapy initiation. The CGRP antagonist was discontinued in many of the reported cases. Monitor individuals for new-onset hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension during ubrogepant treatment. Consider whether discontinuation of ubrogepant is warranted if evaluation fails to establish an alternative etiology for hypertension or blood pressure is inadequately controlled.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    Raynaud phenomenon
    General Information
    Raynaud phenomenon and recurrence or worsening of pre-existing Raynaud phenomenon have been reported with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antagonists, including ubrogepant, during postmarketing surveillance. In reported cases with small molecule CGRP antagonists, symptom onset occurred a median of 1.5 days after administration. Many of the cases reported serious outcomes, including hospitalizations and disability, generally related to debilitating pain. In most reported cases, discontinuation of the CGRP antagonist resulted in resolution of symptoms. Discontinue ubrogepant if signs or symptoms of Raynaud phenomenon develop, and evaluate individuals if symptoms do not resolve.

Description
  Text
  Ubrogepant is an oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura. Ubrogepant is not indicated for the preventative treatment of migraine. The safety of treating more than 8 migraines in a 30-day period has not been established. Ubrogepant is contraindicated with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors; coadministration of certain other drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ubrogepant is a calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist. CGRP is distributed throughout the nervous system, and it is concentrated at anatomical sites, such as the trigeminovascular system, which are involved in migraine pathophysiology. Centrally, CGRP is involved in nociceptive transmission through second and third-order neurons and pain modulation in the brainstem. Peripherally, CGRP mediates vasodilation through smooth muscle receptors. CGRP concentrations are elevated during acute migraine attacks and may be chronically elevated in chronic migraineurs.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Ubrogepant displays dose-proportional pharmacokinetics within the recommended dose range. Peak plasma concentrations occur at approximately 1.5 hours after oral administration. When ubrogepant was administered with a high-fat meal, Tmax was delayed by 2 hours and resulted in a 22% reduction in Cmax with no change in AUC.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In subjects with preexisting mild (Child-Pugh class A), moderate (Child-Pugh class B), or severe hepatic impairment (child-Pugh Class C), ubrogepant exposure was increased by 7%, 50%, and 115%, respectively.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Renal impairment did not reveal a significant difference in the pharmacokinetics of ubrogepant in subjects with mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/minute) relative to those with normal renal function (CrCl more than 90 mL/minute). Individuals with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute) have not been studied.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ubrogepant.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ubrogepant.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ubrogepant.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ubrogepant.
  Text
  Ubrogepant is administered orally. Plasma protein binding of ubrogepant is 87% in vitro. The mean apparent central Vd of ubrogepant after single dose administration is approximately 350 L. Ubrogepant is eliminated mainly through metabolism, primarily by CYP3A4. The parent compound and 2 glucuronide conjugate metabolites are the most prevalent circulating components in human plasma. The glucuronide metabolites are unlikely to contribute to the pharmacologic activity of ubrogepant. The mean apparent oral clearance (CL/F) of ubrogepant is approximately 87 L/hour. Approximately 42% and 6% of the dose is excreted unchanged in feces and urine, respectively. The elimination half-life of ubrogepant is 5 to 7 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, BCRP, MAO-A, OAT1, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT2, P-gp, UGT1A1
Ubrogepant is a substrate for CYP3A4, BCRP, and P-gp. In vitro, ubrogepant is a weak substrate of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and OAT1 and a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, MAO-A, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT2, and UGT1A1. Dose adjustments are needed only for CYP3A4 inhibitors/inducers and BCRP or P-gp inhibitors; no clinical drug interactions are expected for other enzymes and drug transporters.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer with or without food.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed in mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B). Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg in individuals with severe hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class C).
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed with mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or more). Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg in individuals with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute). Avoid ubrogepant use in end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute).
