=== romiDEPsin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3689)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Romidepsin is a histone deacetylase inhibitor that was approved for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in adult patients who have received at least 1 prior systemic treatment.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 14 mg/m2 IV.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, hypotension, qt prolongation, st-t wave changes, hypermagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards), cough, dyspnea

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Use romidepsin with caution in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) and severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, including hepatic failure. Reduce the romidepsin dose in patients with baseline moderate (bilirubin levels greater... Emetic risk: Moderate Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1

Brand Names
  - ISTODAX

Dosage Forms
  - ISTODAX 10mg Powder for Injection
  - Istodax Kit 10mg Powder for Injection
  - Romidepsin 10mg Powder for solution for injection
  - Romidepsin 10mg Powder for solution for injection with Diluent
  - Romidepsin 5mg/1mL Solution for injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        14 mg/m2 IV over 4 hours on days 1, 8, and 15 repeated every 28 days until disease progression. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Interruption or discontinuation of therapy and/or a dose reduction may be necessary in patients who develop toxicities. The overall response rate (ORR; primary end point) was 34% following treatment with romidepsin in patients with stage Ib to IVa CTCL who had 1 or more systemic therapy failures in a multinational, single-arm, phase 2 trial (n = 96). The median number of prior systemic therapies was 3 (range, 1 to 8 therapies); 77% of patients had previously received chemotherapy. Romidepsin therapy was given for up to 6 cycles, but treatment could continue beyond 6 cycles in patients who had a response or stable disease. The complete response (CR) rate was 6%. For all responders, the median time to response was 2 months (range, 0.9 to 4.8 months), the median duration of response (DOR) was 15 months (range, up to 19.8+ months), and the median time to progression (TTP) was 8 months (range, up to 21.7+ months). Pruritus was evaluated using a 100-mm visual analog scale (VAS) score of 1 to 100 millimeters (mm). In 65 patients with a VAS score of 30 mm or higher (moderate to severe pruritus), a clinically meaningful reduction in pruritus, defined as a decrease in VAS score of at least 30 mm or a score of 0 for at least 2 consecutive cycles, occurred in 43% of patients. The ORR was 34% in patients with relapsed, refractory, or advanced (stage IIb to IVb) CTCL who received romidepsin (median of 4 cycles; range, 1 to 72 cycles) in a multicenter, 2-cohort, phase 2 study (n = 71); 6% of these patients achieved a CR. The median number of prior therapies was 4 (range, 0 to 14 therapies); 65% of patients had previously received chemotherapy. For all responders, the median time to response was 2 months (range, 1 to 6 months), the median DOR was 13.7 months, and the median TTP was 15.1 months.
    Heading
    For the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) in patients who have received at least 1 prior systemic therapy
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Dosage not established.
    Heading
    For the treatment of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL)† in patients who have received at least 1 prior therapy

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use romidepsin with caution in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) and severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, including hepatic failure. Reduce the romidepsin dose in patients with baseline moderate (bilirubin levels greater than 1.5 to 3 times the ULN) or severe (bilirubin levels greater than 3 times the ULN) hepatic impairment. Monitor patients with hepatic impairment frequently for romidepsin toxicity, particularly during the first cycle of therapy.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Use romidepsin with caution in patients with a history of hepatitis B infection. Serious and fatal bacterial infection (e.g., pneumonia, sepsis) and reactivation of viral infection (e.g., Epstein Barr virus and hepatitis B virus [HBV]) have been reported with romidepsin therapy. Infectious events may occur during or following romidepsin treatment. Patients who received prior treatment with monoclonal antibodies directed against lymphocyte antigens or who have bone marrow disease involvement may be at higher risk of developing a life-threatening infection. Monitor patients who have a history of HBV infections for reactivation; consider antiviral prophylaxis in these patients.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, cardiovascular disease, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use romidepsin with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Additional risk factors may include a history of significant cardiovascular disease; monitor ECG in these patients at baseline and periodically during treatment.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Romidepsin may cause fetal harm, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no available data on romidepsin use during human pregnancy to inform a drug associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. In animal studies, romidepsin caused embryo-fetal toxicity including reduced fetal weight, folded retina, rotated limbs, and incomplete sternal ossification at exposures below those in humans at the recommended dose.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with romidepsin. Romidepsin may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status within 7 days prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective non-estrogen containing contraception (e.g., condoms, intrauterine device) while taking romidepsin and for 1 month after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during romidepsin treatment and for 1 month after the last dose. Based on findings from animal studies, romidepsin may impair both male and female fertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking romidepsin and for 1 week after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of romidepsin or its metablites in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Romidepsin may cause fetal harm, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no available data on romidepsin use during human pregnancy to inform a drug associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. In animal studies, romidepsin caused embryo-fetal toxicity including reduced fetal weight, folded retina, rotated limbs, and incomplete sternal ossification at exposures below those in humans at the recommended dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with romidepsin. Romidepsin may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status within 7 days prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective non-estrogen containing contraception (e.g., condoms, intrauterine device) while taking romidepsin and for 1 month after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during romidepsin treatment and for 1 month after the last dose. Based on findings from animal studies, romidepsin may impair both male and female fertility.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and romidepsin due to the potential for increased romidepsin exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If use is necessary, monitor for romidepsin-related adverse effects and follow the dose modifications for toxicity as appropriate. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Romidepsin is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with alfuzosin. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval and alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECG and electrolytes if amisulpride is coadministered with romidepsin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, and clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram (ECG) changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops. In addition, romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Clarithromycin may also prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin and the clarithromycin must be continued, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Anagrelide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include romidepsin.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of romidepsin with apalutamide if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of romidepsin. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The effect of strong CYP3A4 inducers on the exposure of romidepsin is unknown.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and romidepsin together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with apomorphine. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if romidepsin and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in romidepsin-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of romidepsin. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) If possible, drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval should be discontinued prior to initiating arsenic trioxide therapy. QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and complete atrioventricular block have been reported. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with arsenic trioxide, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concurrent use of romidepsin and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If these drugs must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Both romidepsin and artemether; lumefantrine are associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Asenapine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as romidepsin. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin and asenapine must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and atazanavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with cobicistat. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%. (Moderate) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and atazanavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of romidepsin and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering bedaquiline with romidepsin. Both drugs have been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline electrocardiogram (ECG). An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, like bexarotene, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of romidepsin and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of romidepsin and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
carBAMazepine: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and carbamazepine, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, may result in significantly altered romidepsin plasma exposure. Therefore, avoid using romidepsin with potent CYP3A4 inducers if possible.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with romidepsin if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation; plasma concentrations of romidepsin may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Monitor for romidepsin-related adverse reactions and follow dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Chloramphenicol is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with romidepsin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as chlorpromazine, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Phenothiazines have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP). This risk is generally higher at elevated drugs concentrations of phenothiazines. Chlorpromazine is specifically associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP; case reports have included patients receiving therapeutic doses of chlorpromazine.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Cimetidine is a mild inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with romidepsin is contraindicated.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of romidepsin and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, and clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram (ECG) changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops. In addition, romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Clarithromycin may also prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin and the clarithromycin must be continued, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
cloZAPine: (Major) It is unclear if concurrent use of other drugs known to cause neutropenia (e.g., antineoplastic agents) increases the risk or severity of clozapine-induced neutropenia. Because there is no strong rationale for avoiding clozapine in patients treated with these drugs, consider increased absolute neutrophil count (ANC) monitoring and consult the treating oncologist. Additionally, treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Antineoplastic agents with a possible risk of QT prolongation and TdP (torsade de pointes) include romidepsin. In theory, coadministration could produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with cobicistat. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with romidepsin due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cyclosporine is an inhibitor of P-gp. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of P-gp may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of romidepsin and darunavir may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary. Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of romidepsin and darunavir may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary. Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with cobicistat. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of romidepsin and darunavir may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary. Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with cobicistat. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment is recommended if dasatinib and romidepsin are coadministered. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with degarelix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desflurane: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with a halogenated anesthetic, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with deutetrabenazine. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Romidepsin is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Quinidine is an inhibitor of P-gp. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of P-gp may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary. In addition, romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Quinidine also prolongs the QT interval. If romidepsin and quinidine must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and estradiol valerate may reduce the efficacy of estradiol valerate. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy, patients of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Disopyramide: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Disopyramide also prolongs the QT interval. If romidepsin and disopyramide must be continued, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and romidepsin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with donepezil as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with donepezil as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of romidepsin and dronedarone is contraindicated. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with droperidol include romidepsin. If coadministration is necessary, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz and monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if administered with romidepsin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz and monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if administered with romidepsin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz and monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if administered with romidepsin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering romidepsin with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated romidepsin plasma concentrations. Romidepsin is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with eliglustat. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with cobicistat. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with cobicistat. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of encorafenib with romidepsin due to the risk for decreased romidepsin exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Romidepsin is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The effect of strong CYP3A inducers on the exposure of romidepsin is unknown.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with ensitrelvir. Romidepsin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with romidepsin due to the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of romidepsin with enzalutamide if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of romidepsin. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The effect of strong CYP3A4 inducers on the exposure of romidepsin is unknown.
eriBULin: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with another drug that prolongs the QT interval, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with romidepsin include eribulin.
Erythromycin: (Major) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Erythromycin is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary. In addition, romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Erythromycin may also prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin and erythromycin must be continued, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of escitalopram and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Estradiol: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and estradiol cypionate may reduce the efficacy of estradiol cypionate. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies. (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and estradiol valerate may reduce the efficacy of estradiol valerate. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy, patients of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, like etravirine, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Alternately, etravirine is an inhibitor of P-gp and may increase systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with romidepsin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of romidepsin and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of fluconazole and romidepsin is contraindicated due to the risk of life threatening arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Fluconazole inhibits CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of romidepsin. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated romidepsin plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for romidepsin-related adverse events, such as QT prolongation. Additionally, fluconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of TdP.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with fluphenazine. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Flutamide: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, like flutamide, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and elevated romidepsin concentrations during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and romidepsin. Cases of QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with another drug that prolongs the QT interval, consider cardiac monitoring, such as monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. In addition, romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and fluvoxamine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concurrent administration may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Monitor for romidepsin-related adverse effects.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of romidepsin and fosamprenavir may result in altered romidepsin plasma concentrations. Romidepsin is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Amprenavir, the active metabolite of fosamprenavir, is an inducer of P-gp and a potent inhibitor and moderate inducer of CYP3A4. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as romidepsin. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If these drugs must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and phenytoin or fosphenytoin, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, may result in significantly altered romidepsin plasma exposure. Therefore, avoid using romidepsin with potent CYP3A4 inducers if possible.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with fostemsavir. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with gemifloxacin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and romidepsin together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and romidepsin is necessary. Consider monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with romidepsin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with electrolyte monitoring and increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of glecaprevir and romidepsin as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of romidepsin and increase the risk of adverse effects. Romidepsin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); glecaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of pibrentasvir and romidepsin as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of romidepsin and increase the risk of adverse effects. Romidepsin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); pibrentasvir is an inhibitor of P-gp.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes at baseline and periodically during treatment if coadministration of romidepsin with goserelin is necessary. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with granisetron. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with a halogenated anesthetic, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with haloperidol. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes at baseline and periodically during treatment if coadministration of romidepsin with histrelin is necessary. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of romidepsin and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin and ibutilide must be continued, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Iloperidone: (Major) Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; however, torsade de pointes (TdP) has not been reported. According to the manufacturer, since iloperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as romidepsin. If coadministration is necessary, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Imatinib, STI-571 is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with romidepsin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when isavuconazonium is administered with romidepsin as there is a potential for elevated romidepsin concentrations. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Romidepsin is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Isoflurane: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with a halogenated anesthetic, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Itraconazole: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and itraconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram (ECG) changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops. Additionally, itraconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes and changes in ECGs (including T-wave and ST-segment changes) have been reported with romidepsin use. If romidepsin is administered with agents that may cause significant QT prolongation, such as itraconazole, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and electrocardiograms at baseline and periodically during treatment. If itraconazole therapy is stopped, it may be prudent to continue close monitoring for up to 2 weeks after discontinuing itraconazole. Once discontinued, the plasma concentration of itraconazole decreases to almost undetectable concentrations within 7 to 14 days. The decline in plasma concentrations may be even more gradual in patients with hepatic cirrhosis or who are receiving concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with romidepsin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and romidepsin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of romidepsin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Romidepsin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, and clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram (ECG) changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops. In addition, romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Clarithromycin may also prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin and the clarithromycin must be continued, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Lapatinib: (Major) Monitor for an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions if coadministration with romidepsin is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate/inhibitor that has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have also been reported in postmarketing experience. Romidepsin is also a P-gp substrate/inhibitor that has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Increased plasma concentrations of both drugs are likely when administered with P-gp inhibitors.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with romidepsin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs and electrolytes at baseline and periodically during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with romidepsin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of romidepsin may occur if given with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, administration of romidepsin with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin concentration by approximately 25%.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs and monitor electrolytes at baseline and periodically during treatment if coadministration of romidepsin with leuprolide is necessary as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and romidepsin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of romidepsin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Romidepsin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor ECG and electrolytes if lofexidine is coadministered with romidepsin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with lonafarnib. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with romidepsin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval. (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with ritonavir. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is expected to alter the systemic exposure of romidepsin; avoid concomitant use if possible. Romidepsin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4, and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Typically, coadministration of CYP3A inducers (e.g., lumacaftor; ivacaftor) decreases the plasma concentrations of CYP3A substrates (e.g., romidepsin). However, coadministration of romidepsin with rifampin, another strong CYP3A inducer, resulted in an approximate 80% and 60% increase in romidepsin AUC and Cmax, respectively. This increase in exposure is likely due to rifampin's inhibition of an undetermined hepatic uptake process that is predominantly responsible for the disposition of romidepsin; it is not known whether lumacaftor; ivacaftor would have similar effects.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is expected to alter the systemic exposure of romidepsin; avoid concomitant use if possible. Romidepsin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4, and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Typically, coadministration of CYP3A inducers (e.g., lumacaftor; ivacaftor) decreases the plasma concentrations of CYP3A substrates (e.g., romidepsin). However, coadministration of romidepsin with rifampin, another strong CYP3A inducer, resulted in an approximate 80% and 60% increase in romidepsin AUC and Cmax, respectively. This increase in exposure is likely due to rifampin's inhibition of an undetermined hepatic uptake process that is predominantly responsible for the disposition of romidepsin; it is not known whether lumacaftor; ivacaftor would have similar effects.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as romidepsin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with mefloquine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation.
Methadone: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. The need to coadminister methadone with drugs known to prolong the QT interval should be done with extreme caution and a careful assessment of treatment risks versus benefits. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction. If romidepsin and methadone must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midostaurin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and romidepsin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring at baseline and periodically during treatment. Correct electrolyte abnormalities, particularly potassium and magnesium levels, prior to starting romidepsin. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received romidepsin.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid use together if possible. Both romidepsin and mifepristone have been reported to prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with another drug that prolongs the QT interval, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. To minimize the risk of QT prolongation, the lowest effect dose of mifepristone should always be used when it is given chronically for hormonal conditions, such as Cushing's syndrome. In addition, romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Mifepristone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may inhibit P-gp. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure, including hematologic and non-hematologic toxicity and follow the romidepsin dose modifications for toxicity as clinically indicated.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with romidepsin due to possible decreases in exposure and efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of romidepsin. Formal drug interaction studies have not been completed for romidepsin.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, like modafinil, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concurrent use of romidepsin and moxifloxacin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If these drugs must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Moxifloxacin has also been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Additionally, post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including TdP, usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded.
Nafcillin: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, like nafcillin, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and nefazodone, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, and nelfinavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp substrate and inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib with other agents that prolong the QT interval, such as romidepsin. Nilotinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and romidepsin is a substrate of CYP3A4; administering these drugs together may result in increased romidepsin levels. If the use of romidepsin is necessary, hold nilotinib therapy. If these drugs are used together, consider a romidepsin dose reduction and monitor patients for toxicity (e.g., QT interval prolongation).
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with ritonavir. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with olanzapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with olanzapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with olanzapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of romidepsin and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and electrolytes if triclabendazole is coadministered with romidepsin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of romidepsin with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor for an increase in romidepsin-related adverse reactions, monitor electrolytes, and monitor ECGs for QT prolongation at baseline and periodically during treatment; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Romidepsin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate that has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation also occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib, which is a P-gp inhibitor.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of romidepsin with oxaliplatin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking romidepsin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Per the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with another drug that prolongs the QT interval, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Closely monitor patients with risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with panobinostat include romidepsin.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of pazopanib and other drugs that prolong the QT interval is not advised; pazopanib and romidepsin have been reported to prolong the QT interval. If pazopanib and romidepsin must be continued, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. In addition, pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concurrent administration is necessary.
Pentamidine: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation. If romidepsin must be coadministered with another drug that prolongs the QT interval, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with perphenazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with perphenazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
PHENobarbital: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and phenobarbital, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, may result in significantly altered romidepsin plasma exposure. Therefore, avoid using romidepsin with potent CYP3A4 inducers if possible.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and phenobarbital, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, may result in significantly altered romidepsin plasma exposure. Therefore, avoid using romidepsin with potent CYP3A4 inducers if possible.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, like topiramate, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Phenytoin: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and phenytoin, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, may result in significantly altered romidepsin plasma exposure. Therefore, avoid using romidepsin with potent CYP3A4 inducers if possible.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as romidepsin. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. If romidepsin must be coadministered with another drug that prolongs the QT interval, the manufacturer recommends appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because of the potential for TdP, use of romidepsin with pimozide is contraindicated.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with romidepsin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking romidepsin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of romidepsin and posaconazole is contraindicated due to the risk of life threatening arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Concurrent administration may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations, causing an increased risk for romidepsin-related adverse events, such as QT prolongation.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Primidone: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Procainamide: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Procainamide also prolongs the QT interval. If romidepsin and procainamide must be continued, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with prochlorperazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Romidepsin is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Propafenone is an inhibitor of P-gp. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of P-gp may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. In addition, romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Propafenone may also prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin and propafenone must be continued, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of romidepsin and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Romidepsin is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Quinidine is an inhibitor of P-gp. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of P-gp may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary. In addition, romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Quinidine also prolongs the QT interval. If romidepsin and quinidine must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
quiNINE: (Major) Concurrent use of quinine and romidepsin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If these drugs must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Quinine has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of TdP. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval. In addition, concentrations of romidepsin may be increased with concomitant use of quinine. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate and quinine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with ranolazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs concurrent use may result in additive QT prolongation.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with relacorilant. Romidepsin is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with relugolix. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with relugolix. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with romidepsin due to an increased risk for QT prolongation; exposure to romidepsin may also increase. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate that has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with romidepsin due to an increased risk for QT prolongation; exposure to romidepsin may also increase. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate that has also been associated with QT prolongation.
rifAMPin: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, and rifampin, a strong CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inhibitor and substrate, increased the romidepsin plasma exposure in a drug interaction trial in patients with advanced cancer. Avoid using romidepsin with potent CYP3A4 inducers if possible. Following a 4-hour infusion of romidepsin 14mg/m2 IV administered with multiple oral doses of rifampin, the AUC and Cmax values of romidepsin were increased by 80% and 60%, respectively, compared with romidepsin alone; these increases were statistically significant. Co-administration of rifampin decreased the romidepsin clearance and volume of distribution by 44% and 52%, respectively. Typically, administering a CYP3A4 substrate with a strong CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the substrate exposure; this interaction may be due to the P-gp inhibitor effect of rifampin or because of another undetermined hepatic uptake process that rifampin inhibits. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of romidepsin with rifapentine if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of romidepsin. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The effect of strong CYP3A4 inducers on the exposure of romidepsin is unknown.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and electrolytes if risperidone is coadministered with romidepsin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with ritonavir. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Saquinavir: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and saquinavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram (ECG) changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops. Additionally, saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid administering saquinavir boosted with ritonavir concurrently with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as romidepsin. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin and ethinyl estradiol may reduce the efficacy of ethinyl estradiol. Because romidepsin can cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman, females of reproductive potential should use an alternative effective contraception method (e.g., condoms or intrauterine devices) during treatment with romidepsin and for at least 1 month after the final dose. Romidepsin showed high affinity for binding to estrogen receptors in pharmacology studies.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and frequently during treatment if romidepsin is administered with selpercatinib due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sertraline and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with a halogenated anesthetic, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving romidepsin due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate and romidepsin. Concomitant use may result in unpredictable effects, resulting in increased toxicities or a reduction in efficacy. Sodium phenylbutyrate and romidepsin are inhibitors of histone deacetylase (HDAC).
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate and romidepsin. Concomitant use may result in unpredictable effects, resulting in increased toxicities or a reduction in efficacy. Sodium phenylbutyrate and romidepsin are inhibitors of histone deacetylase (HDAC).
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Plasma concentrations of romidpesin, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, may be increased when administered concurrently with voxilaprevir, a P-gp inhibitor. Monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with solifenacin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined. This should be taken into consideration when prescribing solifenacin to patients taking other drugs that are associated with QT prolongation.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with romidepsin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Sorafenib is associated with QTc prolongation. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum a strong CYP3A4 inducer, may result in significantly altered romidepsin plasma exposure. Therefore, avoid using romidepsin with potent CYP3A4 inducers if possible.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with sunitinib. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Tacrolimus causes QT prolongation. Reducing the tacrolimus dose, close monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood concentrations, and monitoring for QT prolongation is recommended when tacrolimus is coadministered with other substrates and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4 that also have the potential to prolong the QT interval such as romidepsin. In addition, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Telavancin has also been asociated with QT prolongation.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in romidepsin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Romidepsin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of romidepsin.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). The manufacturer recommends avoiding concurrent use of tetrabenazine with other drugs known to prolong QTc, such as romidepsin. If romidepsin and tetrabenazine must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) and is considered contraindicated for use along with agents that, when combined with a phenothiazine, may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, and/or cause orthostatic hypotension. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Because of the potential for TdP, use of romidepsin with thioridazine is contraindicated.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and tipranavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with tolterodine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, like topiramate, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of romidepsin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Verapamil is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with trifluoperazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes at baseline and periodically during treatment if coadministration of romidepsin with triptorelin is necessary as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with tucatinib. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with romidepsin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. If vemurafenib and another drug, such as romidepsin, that is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Also, romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate, while vemurafenib is CYP3A4 inducer. Decreased romidepsin concentrations may occur with concomitant use.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Verapamil is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider interventions to minimize the risk of progression to torsades de pointes (TdP), such as ECG monitoring and correcting electrolyte abnormalities, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, and clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram (ECG) changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops. In addition, romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Clarithromycin may also prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin and the clarithromycin must be continued, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Voriconazole: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate, and voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram (ECG) changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops. Additionally, voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes and changes in ECGs (including T-wave and ST-segment changes) have been reported with romidepsin use. If romidepsin is administered with agents that may cause significant QT prolongation, such as voriconazole, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and electrocardiograms at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Warfarin: (Major) Prolongation of PT and elevation of INR have been observed in a patient receiving romidepsin and warfarin. Carefully monitor PT and INR in patients receiving romidepsin and warfarin concomitantly.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Zafirlukast is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concurrent administration of romidepsin with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 may cause an increase in systemic romidepsin concentrations. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and romidepsin should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with another drug that prolongs the QT interval, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Zonisamide: (Minor) Zonisamide is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and romidepsin is a substrate of P-gp. There is theoretical potential for zonisamide to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are P-gp substrates. Use caution when starting or stopping zonisamide or changing the zonisamide dosage in patients also receiving drugs which are P-gp substrates.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic toxicity has been reported with romidepsin therapy. Regularly monitor blood counts during romidepsin treatment. Interruption of therapy and/or a dose reduction may be necessary in patients who develop hematologic toxicity. Anemia (19% to 72%; grade 3 or 4, 3% to 16%), thrombocytopenia (17% to 65%; grade 3 or 4, 14% or less), neutropenia (11% to 57%; grade 3 or 4, 4% to 27%), leukopenia (4% to 46%; grade 3 or 4, 22% or less), and lymphopenia (4% to 57%; grade 3 or 4, 37% or less) were reported in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials. Thrombocytopenia (49%; grade 3 or 4, 10% or more), neutropenia (39%; grade 3 or 4, 10% or more), anemia (35%; grade 3 or 4, 10% or more) and leukopenia (grade 3 or 4, 10% or more) occurred in patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma (off-label use) who received single-agent romidepsin in clinical trials (n = 178).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hepatitis B exacerbation, infection
    General Information
    Infection and reactivation of viral infection have been reported with romidepsin therapy in clinical trials. Monitor patients who have a history of hepatitis B virus (HBV) for hepatitis B exacerbation/reactivation; consider antiviral prophylaxis in these patients. Infection may occur during and after treatment. Infection was reported in 46% (grade 3 or 4, 11%) and 54% (grade 3 or 4, 33%) of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials. Sepsis was reported in 3% of patients with CTCL (n = 102) in one trial. Additionally, central-line infection (6%), sepsis (4%), and catheter-related infection (4%) occurred in CTCL patients (n = 83) in another trial; 4 patients died due to infectious causes. Reactivation of HBV infection occurred in 1% of patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis B exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypotension, QT prolongation, ST-T wave changes
    General Information
    Hypotension (7% to 23%; grade 3 or 4, 3% to 4%) and electrocardiogram ST-T wave changes (2% to 63%) were reported in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials. Romidepsin was discontinued due to QT prolongation in at least 2% of patients; 2 deaths due to cardiopulmonary failure and myocardial ischemia were reported. Additionally, serious supraventricular arrhythmias (6%) and ventricular arrhythmias (4%) occurred in patients with CTCL who received romidepsin (n = 83) in 1 clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ST-T wave changes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypermagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Electrolyte abnormalities including hypokalemia (6% to 20%; grade 3 or 4, 2% or less), hypocalcemia (4% to 52%; grade 3 or 4, 6% or less), hyponatremia (20% or less; grade 3 or 4, 2% or less), and hypomagnesemia (22% to 28%; grade 3 or 4, less than 1%) were reported in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials. Additionally, hypermagnesemia (27%; grade 3 or 4, 8%) and hypophosphatemia (27%; grade 3 or 4, 10%) occurred in patients with CTCL who received romidepsin (n = 83) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypermagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal toxicity including nausea (56% to 86%; grade 3 or 4, 3% to 6%), vomiting (34% to 52%; grade 3 or 4, 10% or less), anorexia (23% to 54%; grade 3 or 4, 4% or less), diarrhea (20% to 27%; grade 3 or 4, 1% or less), and constipation (12% to 39%; grade 3 or 4, 1% to 2%) were reported in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (3% to 22%; grade 3 or 4, 2% or less) and AST (3% to 28%; grade 3 or 4, 4% or less) levels and hypoalbuminemia (3% to 48%; grade 3 or 4, 4% or less) were reported in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia was reported in 2% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) and 51% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    exfoliative dermatitis, pruritus
    General Information
    Pruritus (7% to 31%; grade 3 or 4, 6% or less) and dermatitis/exfoliative dermatitis (4% to 27%; grade 3 or 4, 8% or less) were reported in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), cough, dyspnea
    General Information
    Serious dyspnea was reported in 4% of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin (n = 83) in a clinical trial; acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) resulting in death occurred in 1 patient in this trial. Cough (19%) and dyspnea (15%) occurred in patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma (off-label use) who received single-agent romidepsin in clinical trials (n = 178).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    edema
    General Information
    Serious edema was reported in 5% of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin (n = 83) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysgeusia, headache
    General Information
    Dysgeusia was reported in 15% and 40% patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials. Headache (20%) and dysgeusia (22%) occurred in patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma (off-label use) who received single-agent romidepsin in clinical trials (n = 178).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Asthenia/fatigue occurred in 54% (grade 3 or 4, 8%) and 77% (grade 3 or 4, 14%) of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials. Fatigue was reported in 61% (grade 3 or 4; 10% or more) of patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma (off-label use) who received single-agent romidepsin in clinical trials (n = 178).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dehydration
    General Information
    Serious dehydration was reported in 4% of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin (n = 83) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    renal failure
    General Information
    Acute renal failure resulting in death occurred in 1 patient with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin (n = 102) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever occurred in 20% (grade 3 or 4, 4%) and 23% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received romidepsin in 2 clinical trials. Fever occurred in 38% of patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma (off-label use) who received single-agent romidepsin in clinical trials (n = 178).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperuricemia, tumor lysis syndrome (TLS)
    General Information
    Tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) was reported in 1% of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) who received romidepsin in clinical trials. Closely monitor patients with advanced stage disease and/or high tumor burden; take appropriate precautions, and institute treatment as appropriate. Hyperuricemia occurred in 33% (grade 3 or 4, 8%) of patients with CTCL who received romidepsin (n = 83) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tumor lysis syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, romidepsin may cause female and male infertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Romidepsin is a histone deacetylase inhibitor that was approved for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in adult patients who have received at least 1 prior systemic treatment. Electrocardiogram abnormalities including QT interval prolongation have been reported; ensure potassium and magnesium levels are within normal range before administering therapy.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Romidepsin is a bicyclic depsipeptide that is an inhibitor of the histone deacetylase (HDAC) family of enzymes. Romidepsin is a potent inhibitor of class I, II, and IV HDAC. Histone deacetylases are enzymes that catalyze the removal of acetyl groups from the lysine residues of proteins, including histones and transcription factors. Overexpression of HDACs or an abnormal recruitment of HDACs to oncogenic transcription factors is present in some cancer cells. This causes hypoacetylation of core nucleosomal histones resulting in a condensed chromatin structure and repression of gene transcription. Inhibition of HDAC activity produces an accumulation of acetyl groups on the histone lysine residues resulting in an open chromatin structure and transcriptional activation. In many different malignant cell lines, HDAC inhibitors have been shown to activate differentiation, inhibit the cell cycle, and induce apoptosis. In vivo, HDAC inhibitors have exhibited stimulation of the immune system and blockage of angiogenesis. The complete mechanism of the antineoplastic effect of romidepsin observed in nonclinical and clinical studies has not been fully characterized. However, accumulation of acetylated histones, induction of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of cancer cell lines are thought to be responsible for the activity of romidepsin.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    In patients with CTCL who received romidepsin 14 mg/m2 IV over 4 hours, the Cmax and AUC values were 377 ng/mL and 1,549 ng x hour/mL, respectively. Romidepsin displays linear pharmacokinetics within the dose range of 1 to 24.9 mg/m2.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Romidepsin clearance is decreased in cancer patients with hepatic impairment. It was evaluated in cancer patients with mild (bilirubin level at or below the upper limit of normal (ULN) and AST level greater than the ULN, or bilirubin level greater than the ULN to 1.5-times the ULN and any AST level), moderate (bilirubin levels greater than 1.5 to 3-times the ULN and any AST level), and severe (bilirubin levels greater than 3-times the ULN and any AST level) hepatic impairment who received a dose of romidepsin 14 mg/m2, 7 mg/m2, and 5 mg/m2, respectively. Compared with patients who had normal hepatic function and received a 14 mg/m2 dose, the geometric mean AUC values were about 144%, 114%, and 116% and the geometric mean Cmax values were about 111%, 96%, and 86% in patients with mild, moderate, and severe hepatic impairment, respectively.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Renal impairment does not affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of romidepsin. The pharmacokinetics of romidepsin have not been evaluated in patients with end-stage renal disease.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (range, 27 to 83 years) does not affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of romidepsin.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender does not affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of romidepsin.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (black vs. white) does not affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of romidepsin.
  Text
  Romidepsin is administered intravenously. Romidepsin is highly protein bound (92% to 94%) in plasma, primarily to alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, within the concentration range of 50 to 1,000 ng/mL. After a 4 hour infusion, romidepsin has a half-life of approximately 3 hours. No accumulation of romidepsin was observed after repeat dosing. The pharmacokinetics of romidepsin does not appear to be impacted by repeated dosing or by increasing the dose (within the dose range of 1 to 24.9 mg/m2). Preclinical studies have shown that up to 66% of romidepsin is excreted in the bile.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP3A4 and P-gp
Romidepsin is metabolized extensively by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5, CYP1A1, CYP2B6, and CYP2C19 in vitro. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity if romidepsin is given with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor as romidepsin plasma exposure may increase; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops. Avoid concomitant use of romidepsin with strong CYP3A4 inducers as romidepsin plasma exposure may be significantly altered. Pharmacokinetic interactions are unlikely to occur due to CYP450 induction or inhibition by romidepsin when coadministered with CYP450 substrates. Romidepsin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and an inhibitor of BSEP and OATP1B1 in vitro. Use caution when administering romidepsin with P-gp inhibitors as increased concentrations of romidepsin may occur.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
Emetic Risk
Moderate
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Romidepsin is available in a 10-mg lyophilized powder vial or as a 5 mg/mL solution for injection.
Reconstitution (lyophilized powder vial only):
Reconstitute the romidepsin 10-mg lyophilized powder vial with 2.2 mL of the supplied diluent for a final volume of 2 mL and a final vial concentration of 5 mg/mL; note that diluent vials contain overfill (2.4 mL total volume).
Slowly inject the diluent into the powder vial; swirl the vial until the solution is clear with no visible particles.
Storage following reconstitution: vials may be stored at room temperature for up to 8 hours.
Dilution:
Dilute the appropriate amount of romidepsin in 500 mL 0.9% sodium chloride for injection.
The diluted solution may be contained in polyvinyl chloride (PVC), ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA), polyethylene (PE) infusion bags or glass bottles.
Storage following dilution: administer the diluted admixture as soon as possible; however, the admixture may be stored at room temperature for up to 24 hours.
Intravenous (IV) infusion:
Administer the romidepsin admixture as an IV infusion over 4 hours.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    14 mg/m2 IV.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    14 mg/m2 IV.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Mild (bilirubin level at or below the ULN and AST level greater than the ULN, or bilirubin level greater than the ULN to 1.5 times the ULN and any AST level): No romidepsin dosage adjustment is necessary.Moderate (bilirubin levels greater than 1.5 to 3 times the ULN): Reduce the dose to 7 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 8, and 15.Severe (bilirubin levels greater than 3 times the ULN): Reduce the dose to 5 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 8, and 15.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
