=== Alectinib — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 4735)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alectinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets ALK and RET.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 600 mg by mouth twice daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia, cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, weakness, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, azotemia, nephrotoxicity, renal failure, anemia, hemolytic anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, acneiform rash, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, pruritus

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Reduce the dose of alectinib in patients with Child-Pugh class C hepatic impairment. Severe hepatotoxicity, including drug-induced liver injury, has occurred in patients treated with alectinib; alectinib has not been studied in patients with hepatic failure. Patient counseling: Advise patients to report any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness. Emetic risk: Minimal/Low

ALECTINIB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Alecensa

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

For the treatment of metastatic, ALK-positive NSCLC
Oral dosage
Adults


600 mg PO twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. First-line treatment with alectinib significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS) compared with crizotinib (25.7 months vs. 10.4 months) in a multicenter, open-label clinical trial of patients with ALK-positive NSCLC (ALEX). The overall response rate was 79% (complete response [CR] 13%) for those who received alectinib compared with 72% (CR, 6%) for patients treated with crizotinib; the CNS objective response rate was 81% (CR, 38%) versus 50% (CR, 5%), respectively. Overall survival (OS) was not formally tested due to the prespecified hierarchical testing strategy; the hazard ratio for OS was 0.78 (95% CI: 0.56, 1.08). Patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC who were treated with alectinib after progression on crizotinib had objective response rates of 38% to 48% in two multicenter, single-arm clinical trials.


For the adjuvant treatment of resected ALK-positive NSCLC (tumors 4 cm or larger, or node positive)
Oral dosage
Adults


600 mg PO twice daily for 2 years, or until disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity. In a multicenter, randomized, open-label phase 3 trial (ALINA), treatment with alectinib significantly improved the primary outcome of median disease-free survival (DFS) (not reached vs. 41.3 months) in patients with completely resected ALK-positive stage IB to IIIA NSCLC compared with 4 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy; the median DFS was not reached versus 44.4 months, respectively, in the subgroup of patients that excluded stage IB disease. Overall survival results were not yet mature after a median follow-up of 27.8 months. In an exploratory analysis, 4 patients in the alectinib arm had CNS involvement at the time of relapse, compared with 14 patients (11%) in the chemotherapy arm.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Reduce the dose of alectinib in patients with Child-Pugh class C hepatic impairment. Severe hepatotoxicity, including drug-induced liver injury, has occurred in patients treated with alectinib; alectinib has not been studied in patients with hepatic failure. Monitor liver function tests (i.e., ALT, AST, total bilirubin) every 2 weeks for the first 3 months of treatment, then once monthly and as clinically indicated; test more frequently in patients who develop hyperbilirubinemia or transaminitis. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hepatotoxicity occurs.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

bradycardia


Avoid the use of alectinib in patients with symptomatic bradycardia; monitor heart rate and blood pressure regularly during treatment. Symptomatic bradycardia occurred in patients treated with alectinib in clinical trials. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for symptomatic bradycardia or life-threatening bradycardia.


nonmalignant pulmonary disease


Use alectinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing nonmalignant pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with alectinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt alectinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with alectinib. Alectinib can cause fetal harm if taken during pregnancy. Verify pregnancy status in people who may become pregnant prior to treatment initiation. Advise this population to use effective contraception while taking this medication and for at least 5 weeks after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during alectinib treatment and for at least 3 months after the last dose.


breast-feeding


Due to the risk of potential harm to the breast-fed child, it is recommended to avoid breast-feeding while taking alectinib and for 1 week after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of alectinib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breast-fed child, or their effects on milk production.


pregnancy


Advise patients to avoid pregnancy during alectinib treatment and for 5 weeks after the last dose. While adequately controlled studies in pregnant individuals are lacking, the potential for fetal harm exists based on its mechanism of action and findings from animal studies. Oral administration of alectinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis resulted in embryo-fetal toxicity and pregnancy loss with exposures approximately 2.7- to 2.9-fold those observed in humans at the recommended dose. Toxicities reported included decreased fetal and placental weights, retroesophageal subclavian artery, dilated ureter, thymic cord, small ventricle and thin ventricle wall, and reduced number of sacral and caudal vertebrae. Alectinib exposure in rats of approximately 4.5-fold the estimated exposure in humans at the recommended dose during organogenesis resulted in complete litter loss. It is important to inform pregnant individuals about the potential risks to the fetus associated with the use of alectinib. The American Society of Clinical Oncology provides additional information on the use of certain medications for the management of cancer during pregnancy.


hypertriglyceridemia


Use alectinib with caution in patients with hypertriglyceridemia at baseline; hypertriglyceridemia has been reported with alectinib therapy, including severe cases associated with life-threatening acute pancreatitis. Monitor blood triglyceride levels at baseline and periodically during treatment with alectinib. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hypertriglyceridemia occurs.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Advise patients to avoid pregnancy during alectinib treatment and for 5 weeks after the last dose. While adequately controlled studies in pregnant individuals are lacking, the potential for fetal harm exists based on its mechanism of action and findings from animal studies. Oral administration of alectinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis resulted in embryo-fetal toxicity and pregnancy loss with exposures approximately 2.7- to 2.9-fold those observed in humans at the recommended dose. Toxicities reported included decreased fetal and placental weights, retroesophageal subclavian artery, dilated ureter, thymic cord, small ventricle and thin ventricle wall, and reduced number of sacral and caudal vertebrae. Alectinib exposure in rats of approximately 4.5-fold the estimated exposure in humans at the recommended dose during organogenesis resulted in complete litter loss. It is important to inform pregnant individuals about the potential risks to the fetus associated with the use of alectinib. The American Society of Clinical Oncology provides additional information on the use of certain medications for the management of cancer during pregnancy.


Interactions

Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Porfimer: (Major) Avoid coadministration of porfimer with alectinib due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. All patients treated with porfimer will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like alectinib may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with alectinib is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like alectinib may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.


Adverse Reaction
elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia


Hepatotoxicity occurred in 41% of patients who received alectinib in a pooled safety population (n = 533) (grade 3 or higher, 8%). In the ALINA study, hepatotoxicity occurred in 61% of patients who received adjuvant treatment with alectinib (grade 3 or higher, 4.7%), including elevated hepatic enzymes, increased bile acids, hyperbilirubinemia, and ocular icterus. Most cases of transaminitis (72%) occurred during the first 3 months of therapy. A concurrent elevation in total bilirubin of 2 or more times the upper limit of normal (ULN) with elevated hepatic enzymes of at least 3 times ULN with normal alkaline phosphatase occurred in less than 1% of patients in the pooled safety population. In individual clinical trials, transaminitis (AST/ALT) occurred in 51% to 75% of patients receiving alectinib as adjuvant therapy (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% to 2.3%) and in 34% to 50% of patients who received alectinib for metastatic disease (grade 3 or 4, 3.6% to 6%); increased bilirubin (39% to 68%; grade 3 or 4, 2.3% to 5%) and increased alkaline phosphatase (47% to 64%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% or less) were also reported in these trials. Three patients with grade 3 to 4 AST/ALT elevations had documented drug-induced liver injury. Hypoalbuminemia (14%) and increased gamma glutamyl transferase (7%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%) were additionally reported in patients who received alectinib for the treatment of metastatic NSCLC. Monitor liver function tests every 2 weeks for the first 3 months of treatment, and then once monthly and as clinically indicated during treatment; monitor more frequently in patients who develop transaminase and bilirubin elevations. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.


cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis


Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis occurred in 1.3% of patients treated with alectinib in a pooled safety population (n = 533) (grade 3, 0.4%). The median time to onset of grade 3 or higher ILD/pneumonitis was 2.1 months (range, 0.6 months to 3.6 months). Hold alectinib and promptly investigate new or worsening respiratory symptoms (e.g., cough, dyspnea, fever); cough was reported in 19% to 20% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less) and dyspnea in 13% to 16% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% to 3.6%) of patients treated with alectinib in 2 clinical trials. Permanently discontinue alectinib if ILD/pneumonitis is diagnosed and no other potential cause is identified.


bradycardia


Bradycardia occurred in 11% of patients treated with alectinib in a pooled safety population (n = 533). Of alectinib-treated patients in whom serial ECGs were available (n = 521), 20% had post-dose heart rates of less than 50 beats per minutes. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure regularly; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.


myocardial infarction


Acute myocardial infarction occurred in 1.6% of NSCLC patients receiving adjuvant treatment with alectinib in a randomized controlled trial.


musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, weakness


Myalgia (23% to 34%; grade 3 or higher, 1.2% or less) including muscle fatigue, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, and muscle stiffness and elevated creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels (37% to 77%; grade 3 or 4, 2.8% to 8%) were reported in patients treated with alectinib in clinical trials. The median time to grade 3 or higher CPK elevation in a pooled safety population was 15 days. Monitor CPK levels every 2 weeks for the first month of treatment, and then as clinically indicated in patients reporting symptoms; a dose reduction, interruption of therapy, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary. Patients should be advised to promptly report any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness.


hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia


Hypocalcemia (29% to 32%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4% or less), hyperglycemia (22% to 36%; grade 3 or 4, 2% to 2.2%), hyponatremia (18% to 20%; grade 3 or 4, 2% to 6%), hypokalemia (17% to 29%; grade 3 or 4, 2% to 4%), and hypophosphatemia (9% to 21%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4% to 2.8%) were reported in patients treated with alectinib in 2 clinical trials. Twelve percent of alectinib-treated patients in 1 randomized clinical trial additionally reported hyperkalemia (grade 3 or 4, 1.4%) while 30% of patients in another reported hyperuricemia.


azotemia, nephrotoxicity, renal failure


Renal impairment occurred in 12% of patients treated with alectinib in a pooled safety population (n = 533) (grade 3 or 4, 1.7%; grade 5, 0.4%) including azotemia, increased creatinine, decreased glomerular filtration rate, and renal failure; the median time to grade 3 or higher renal impairment was 3.7 months. An increase in creatinine from baseline occurred in 28% to 41% of alectinib-treated patients in 3 clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 4.1% or less). An interruption of therapy and dose reduction is required for grade 3 nephrotoxicity; permanently discontinue therapy for grade 4 nephrotoxicity. The safety of alectinib treatment in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease has not been studied.


anemia, hemolytic anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia


Anemia was reported in 56% to 62% (grade 3 or 4, 2% to 7%) of patients treated with alectinib in 2 clinical trials; decreases in hemoglobin from baseline were reported in 69% of patients in another randomized controlled trial. Hemolytic anemia was initially reported with alectinib therapy in the postmarketing setting, including cases associated with a negative direct antiglobulin test (DAT) result; assessments were subsequently added to clinical trial monitoring where hemolytic anemia was subsequently observed in 3.1% of patients receiving adjuvant therapy with alectinib for the treatment of NSCLC after surgical resection. Interrupt therapy and initiate appropriate laboratory testing if hemolytic anemia is suspected; if confirmed, consider either resuming therapy at a reduced dose or a permanent discontinuation of therapy. Lymphopenia was reported in 14% to 22% of alectinib-treated patients in 2 clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 1.4% to 4.6%) and neutropenia in 14% of patients in 1 clinical trial.


acneiform rash, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, urticaria, xerosis


Rash occurred in 15% to 18% of patients treated with alectinib in 3 clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.4% to 1.6%) including acneiform rash, bullous rash, eczema, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, pruritus, seborrheic dermatitis, urticaria, and xerosis.


photosensitivity


A photosensitivity reaction was reported in 3.9% to 9.9% of patients treated with alectinib in clinical trials. Advise patients to avoid prolonged sun exposure while taking alectinib and for 7 days after the last dose. Patients should use appropriate sun protection including a broad spectrum UVA/UVB sunscreen and lip balm with SPF greater than or equal to 50.


abdominal pain, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, GI perforation, nausea, oral ulceration, stomatitis, vomiting, weight gain


Constipation (34% to 42%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less), diarrhea including colitis (12% to 16%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% or less), weight gain (9.9% to 13%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less), nausea (8% to 18%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less), and vomiting (7% to 12%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4% or less) were reported across clinical trials in patients treated with alectinib. Stomatitis including oral ulceration occurred in 3.3% to 4.7% of alectinib-treated patients in 2 randomized controlled trials. Grade 1 or 2 abdominal pain was reported in 13% of patients treated with alectinib in 1 randomized controlled trial. Fatal GI perforation occurred in 0.4% of patients treated with alectinib in 1 clinical trial.


asthenia, back pain, fatigue, headache


Fatigue including asthenia was reported in 25% to 41% of patients treated with alectinib across clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% to 1.3%). Headache (17%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) and back pain (12%) were additionally reported in alectinib-treated patients in 1 single-arm clinical trial.


blurred vision, diplopia, photopsia, visual impairment


Visual impairment including asthenopia, blurred vision, diplopia, photopsia, reduced visual acuity, and vitreous floaters were reported in 4.6% to 10% of patients treated with alectinib in 3 clinical trials.


pulmonary embolism


Pulmonary embolism occurred in 1.2% of alectinib-treated patients with ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in 2 open-label, single-arm clinical trials (n = 250), and was fatal in 1 patient (0.4%).


bleeding


Fatal hemorrhage (bleeding) occurred in 0.8% of alectinib-treated patients with ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in 2 open-label, single-arm clinical trials (n = 250).


appendicitis, infection


COVID-19 infection was reported in 29% of NSCLC patients receiving adjuvant treatment with alectinib in a randomized clinical trial. Serious cases of pneumonia were reported in 3.9% to 4.6% of alectinib-treated patients in 2 randomized controlled trials, while appendicitis occurred in 3.1% of patients in 1 randomized controlled trial and fatal endocarditis was reported in 0.4% of patients who received alectinib in 2 single-arm clinical trials.


dysgeusia


Dysgeusia including hypogeusia and taste disorder was reported in 3.3% to 13% of patients treated with alectinib in 2 randomized controlled trials.


edema, peripheral edema


Edema was reported in 16% to 30% of patients treated with alectinib in clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less), including eyelid edema, facial edema, localized edema, periorbital edema, and peripheral edema.


hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis


Hypertriglyceridemia, including severe cases associated with life-threatening acute pancreatitis, has been reported in patients treated with alectinib in the postmarketing setting. Increased blood triglycerides were reported in 57% of patients treated with alectinib in 2 single-arm clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 7%). An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for patients who develop severe hypertriglyceridemia or pancreatitis, depending on the severity.


Description

Alectinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets ALK and RET. It is FDA-approved for the adjuvant treatment of ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after resection of tumors 4 cm or larger or in node positive disease, as well as for the treatment of metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC. Treatment can cause hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, and severe myalgia/increases in creatine phosphokinase (CPK); monitor liver function, renal function, and CPK levels during treatment.

Mechanism Of Action

Alectinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) and RET. Alectinib, a CNS-active and highly selective ALK inhibitor, inhibited ALK phosphorylation and ALK-mediated activation of the downstream signaling proteins STAT3 and AKT in nonclinical studies. It also decreased tumor cell viability in multiple cell lines harboring ALK fusions, amplifications, or activating mutations. The major active metabolite is M4, which has shown similar in vitro potency and activity. Alectinib and M4 have demonstrated in vitro and in vivo activity against multiple mutant forms of the ALK enzyme, including some mutations in NSCLC tumors in patients who have progressed on crizotonib. Administration of alectinib resulted in antitumor activity and prolonged survival in mouse models implanted with tumors carrying ALK fusions, including mouse models implanted intracranially with ALK-driven tumor cell lines.

Pharmacokinetics

Alectinib is administered orally. Alectinib and its major metabolite, M4, are greater than 99% bound to plasma proteins, independent of drug concentration. The apparent volume of distribution (Vd) is 4,016 liters for alectinib and 10,093 liters for M4; alectinib concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with ALK-positive NSCLC approximate the estimated alectinib free concentrations in the plasma. The apparent clearance (CL/F) is 81.9 L/hour for alectinib and 217 L/hour for M4; the geometric mean elimination half-life is 33 hours for alectinib and 31 hours for M4. Steady-state concentrations are reached by day 7 of administration. The geometric mean accumulation was approximately 6-fold for both alectinib and M4. Ninety-eight percent of radioactivity was excreted in feces after oral administration of a single radiolabeled dose of alectinib under fed conditions; 84% of the dose was unchanged alectinib and 6% was M4. Excretion in the urine was less than 0.5% of the radiolabeled dose.
 
Affected cytochrome (CYP) 450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and BCRP
Alectinib is metabolized by CYP3A4 to its major active metabolite, M4; M4 is subsequently also metabolized by CYP3A4. The mean metabolite/parent exposure ratio is 0.4 at steady state; alectinib and M4 account for 76% of the total radioactivity after a dose. In vitro studies suggest that alectinib is not a substrate of P-gp, but M4 is. Additionally, both alectinib and M4 inhibit P-gp and BCRP in vitro. Pharmacokinetic drug interactions with alectinib requiring dosage adjustments have not been identified. Alectinib and M4 are not substrates of BCRP, OATP1B1, or OATP1B3, and do not inhibit CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19, or 2D6. Alectinib did not inhibit OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, or OCT2 in vitro.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The maximal concentration (Cmax) for alectinib at steady-state was 665 ng/mL (CV, 44%) and was 246 ng/mL (CV, 45%) for M4, with a peak to trough concentration ratio of 1.2; the time to maximal concentration (Tmax) was was 4 hours. The geometric mean AUC at steady-state from 0 to 12 hours was 7,430 ng x h/mL (CV, 46%) for alectinib and 2,810 ng x h/mL (CV, 46%) for M4. Alectinib exposure is dose proportional between 460 mg to 900 mg (i.e., 0.75 to 1.5 times the approved recommended dose) under fed conditions. The absolute bioavailability (F) of alectinib was 37% (90% CI, 34% to 40%) under fed conditions; a high fat, high-calorie meal increased the AUC of alectinib plus M4 by 3.1-fold (90% CI, 2.7 to 3.6-fold) after oral administration of a single 600-mg dose.

Hepatic Impairment

Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than or equal to upper limit of normal (ULN) and AST greater than ULN, OR total bilirubin 1 to 1.5 times ULN and any AST) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the systemic exposure of alectinib or M4. After administration of a single oral dose of alectinib (300 mg), the geometric mean ratio for the combined AUC of alectinib and M4 in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) was 1.36 (90% CI, 0.947 to 1.96) and in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) was 1.76 (90% CI, 0.984 to 3.15) compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. The combined Cmax of alectinib and M4 was comparable among the 3 groups.

Renal Impairment

Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCL 30 to 89 mL/min) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the systemic exposure of alectinib or M4. Due to high protein binding, alectinib and its major active metabolite, M4, are unlikely to be removed by hemodialysis. The pharmacokinetics of alectinib have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCL less than 30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease (ESRD).

Geriatric

Age (range, 21 to 83 years) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the systemic exposure of alectinib or M4.

Gender Differences

Gender does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the systemic exposure of alectinib or M4.

Ethnic Differences

Ethnicity (Caucasian, Asian, Other) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the systemic exposure of alectinib or M4.

Obesity

Body weight (38 kg to 128 kg) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the systemic exposure of alectinib or M4.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
Patient Counseling
Advise patients to report any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness.
Advise patients to avoid sunlight (UV) exposure during treatment and for at least 7 days after the last dose of alectinib. Patients should wear protective clothing, use a broad spectrum UVA/UVB sunscreen, and wear protective lip balm (SPF 50 or higher) when outdoors.


Oral Administration


Administer alectinib with food.
Do not open or dissolve the contents of the capsule.
If a dose is missed, or if vomiting occurs after taking a dose, take the dose at the next scheduled time. Do not repeat doses or make up missed doses.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

600 mg by mouth twice daily.

Geriatric

600 mg by mouth twice daily.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

ALECENSA 150mg Capsule

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B): No dosage adjustment necessary.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Reduce the dose of alectinib to 450 mg PO twice daily.
 
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
AST/ALT more than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) AND total bilirubin 2 times ULN or less: Hold alectinib. When AST/ALT recovers to less than or equal to 3 times ULN or baseline, resume alectinib at a reduced dose (1st dose reduction, 450 mg twice daily; 2nd dose reduction, 300 mg twice daily); discontinue alectinib if unable to tolerate a dose of 300 mg twice daily.
AST/ALT greater than 3 times ULN AND total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN (in the absence of cholestasis or hemolysis): Permanently discontinue alectinib.
Total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN: Hold alectinib. When total bilirubin recovers to less than or equal to 1.5 times ULN or baseline, resume alectinib at a reduced dose (1st dose reduction, 450 mg twice daily; 2nd dose reduction, 300 mg twice daily); discontinue alectinib if unable to tolerate a dose of 300 mg twice daily.


Renal Impairment

Baseline Renal Impairment
A dosage adjustment is not recommended for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. The safety of alectinib in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCL less than 30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease has not been studied. Alectinib is not likely to be removed by hemodialysis.
 
Treatment-Related Nephrotoxicity
Grade 3 renal impairment: Hold alectinib. When serum creatinine (SCr) recovers to less than or equal to 1.5 times ULN, resume alectinib at a reduced dose (1st dose reduction, 450 mg twice daily; 2nd dose reduction, 300 mg twice daily); discontinue alectinib if unable to tolerate a dose of 300 mg twice daily.
Grade 4 renal impairment: Permanently discontinue alectinib.


© 2026 Elsevier