=== aMILoride — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 23)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amiloride is an oral potassium-sparing diuretic similar in action to triamterene.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/day PO (manufacturer guidelines); 40 mg/day PO has been used.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): gi bleeding, peptic ulcer, anxiety, arthralgia, back pain, chest pain (unspecified), confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, encephalopathy, headache, insomnia, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, tremor, vertigo, weakness, bladder spasm, dysuria, gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, polyuria, angina, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, cough, dyspnea, nasal congestion

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Amiloride is contraindicated in individuals with hyperkalemia (serum potassium more than 5.5 mEq/L) or in individuals taking concomitant potassium supplementation, potassium-containing...

AMILORIDE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Midamor

Indication Specific Dosing

For the adjunctive treatment of heart failure edema, hypertension, or hypokalemia

Oral dosage
Adults


Initially, 5 to 10 mg/day PO. Titrate the dosage to achieve clinical goals. Carefully monitor serum potassium and electrolyte balance. Max: 20 mg/day.


Children† and Adolescents†


0.4 to 0.625 mg/kg/dose PO once daily. Max: 20 mg/day.


For the treatment of ascites† (e.g., due to hepatic cirrhosis) alone or in combination with furosemide

Oral dosage
Adults


10 mg PO once daily. Maximum dose is 40 mg/day. Titrate the dosage to achieve clinical goals; carefully monitor serum potassium and electrolyte balance.


Geriatric


See adult dosage. Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the diuretic effects of the drug and are more likely to have age-associated renal dysfunction (see renal dosing).


For the treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus†

Oral dosage
Adults


0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg/day (Max: 10 mg/day) PO.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents



0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg/day or 20 mg/1.73 m2/day PO.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

diabetes mellitus, hyperkalemia, increased risk for hyperkalemia


Amiloride is contraindicated in individuals with hyperkalemia (serum potassium more than 5.5 mEq/L) or in individuals taking concomitant potassium supplementation, potassium-containing salt substitutes or drugs that conserve potassium (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, cyclosporine, tacrolimus, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, or angiotensin II receptor (ARB) antagonists). Amiloride can cause hyperkalemia. Individuals at increased risk for hyperkalemia include those with diabetes mellitus (with or without recognized renal insufficiency), impaired renal function, or who are elderly. Amiloride may also cause hyponatremia or hypochloremia. Monitor serum potassium concentrations upon initiation, at dose adjustments, and during any illness that could impact renal function and serum electrolytes while on amiloride therapy. If hyperkalemia occurs, discontinue amiloride immediately and treat the hyperkalemia.


anuria, diabetic nephropathy, renal failure, renal impairment


Amiloride is contraindicated in individuals with anuria, acute or chronic renal impairment, renal failure, and evidence of diabetic nephropathy. Use caution in individuals with evidence of renal impairment, such as BUN greater than 30 mg/dL or serum creatinine (SCr) greater than 1.5 mg/dL, or diabetes mellitus, and frequently monitor serum potassium concentrations, SCr, and BUN in this population during amiloride therapy. The risk of hyperkalemia is higher in individuals with renal impairment. Guidelines recommend avoiding use of amiloride when the GFR is less than 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2.


hepatic disease, metabolic alkalosis


Use amiloride with caution in individuals with resistant edema, hepatic cirrhosis with ascites and metabolic alkalosis, or pre-existing severe hepatic disease. Increases in BUN may occur with amiloride therapy and the risk may be higher with vigorous diuresis or in individuals with hepatic cirrhosis with ascites and metabolic alkalosis, or resistant edema. In individuals with severe hepatic disease, hepatic encephalopathy and jaundice may occur due to amiloride-induced side effects, such as hyponatremia or hypovolemia. Monitor serum electrolytes and BUN levels during amiloride therapy.


cardiopulmonary disease


Use amiloride with caution in severely ill individuals, such as those with cardiopulmonary disease or poorly controlled diabetes, who may have a higher risk of developing metabolic or respiratory acidosis. If amiloride is given to these individuals, frequently monitor the acid-base balance. Rapid increases in serum potassium concentrations may occur with the development of acidosis.


geriatric


Greater sensitivity to the usual dosage of amiloride may occur in some older adults, and care should be taken in initial dose selection for the geriatric adult. In general, initial dosage should be at the low end of the dosage range to reflect the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Additionally, elderly adults have a higher risk of developing hyperkalemia with amiloride therapy. According to the Beers Criteria, diuretics are considered potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric adults; use with caution due to the potential for causing or exacerbating SIADH or hyponatremia; sodium levels should be closely monitored when starting or changing dosages of diuretics in older adults. The Beers expert panel recommends that amiloride be avoided in geriatric patients with a creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute due to the potential for increased potassium and decreased sodium.


pregnancy


There are no adequate and well-controlled studies that evaluate the use of amiloride during human pregnancy. Amiloride crosses the placenta in modest amounts. In animal studies, maternal toxicity and a decrease in rat pup growth and survival occurred at doses approximately 5 or more times the maximum human daily dose.


breast-feeding


Use amiloride with caution during breast-feeding. Studies in rats have shown that concentrations in milk are higher than those in plasma. It is not known whether amiloride is present in human milk; however, the molecular weight of the drug is low enough for excretion into breast milk to occur. Alternative drugs may be preferred.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate and well-controlled studies that evaluate the use of amiloride during human pregnancy. Amiloride crosses the placenta in modest amounts. In animal studies, maternal toxicity and a decrease in rat pup growth and survival occurred at doses approximately 5 or more times the maximum human daily dose.


Interactions

Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with oxycodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors promote electrolyte excretion including hydrogen ions, sodium, and potassium. They can enhance the sodium depleting effects of other diuretics when used concurrently. Pre-existing hypokalemia and hyperuricemia can also be potentiated by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Monitor serum potassium to determine the need for potassium supplementation and alteration in drug therapy.
Adefovir: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as amiloride, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, thereby increasing serum concentrations of adefovir and/or amiloride. Coadministration of these drugs has not been studied, but caution is warranted.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with alfentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as spironolactone or other potassium-sparing diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Ambrisentan: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving antihypertensive agents should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. If possible, patients should not take their antihypertensive medication 24 hours before receiving amifostine. Patients who can not stop their antihypertensive agents should not receive amifostine or be closely monitored during the infusion and, possibly, given lower doses.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of potassium-sparing diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust amiloride dose accordingly as aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Moderate) Use caution when using arsenic trioxide with potassium-sparing diuretics. Electrolyte abnormalities, such as increased potassium, may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with oxycodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Azilsartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if a potassium-sparing diuretic and baxdrostat are used together. Both medications increase serum potassium concentrations and concomitant use may increase the risk for hyperkalemia.
Beclomethasone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with opium. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Benazepril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with benzhydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Betamethasone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to brexpiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Budesonide: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with buprenorphine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with buprenorphine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including potassium-sparing diuretics. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcium Phosphate, Supersaturated: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Candesartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Captopril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors promote electrolyte excretion including hydrogen ions, sodium, and potassium. They can enhance the sodium depleting effects of other diuretics when used concurrently. Pre-existing hypokalemia and hyperuricemia can also be potentiated by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Monitor serum potassium to determine the need for potassium supplementation and alteration in drug therapy.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with tramadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Ciclesonide: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The administration of cidofovir with another potentially nephrotoxic agent, such as diuretics, is contraindicated. Diuretics should be discontinued at least 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and citalopram use; consider discontinuing citalopram if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust amiloride dose accordingly as clozapine may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant co-enzyme Q10 (ubiquinone) and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension.
Corticosteroids: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Minor) Monitor serum electrolytes, particularly serum calcium concentrations, during concomitant corticotropin and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Corticotropin may accentuate the electrolyte loss associated with diuretic therapy.
Cortisone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Cosyntropin: (Moderate) Use cosyntropin cautiously in patients receiving diuretics. Cosyntropin may accentuate the electrolyte loss associated with diuretic therapy.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cyclosporine and potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, due to the risk of hyperkalemia. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Darifenacin: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Deflazacort: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
dexAMETHasone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Seven of ten patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia developed adverse reactions including sustained ventricular tachycardia and other somatic complaints during concomitant amiloride and quinidine administration. The therapeutic antiarrhythmic actions of quinidine were antagonized by amiloride. In addition, quinidine exerts either direct or indirect (alpha-adrenergic blockade) peripheral vasodilatory effects, which can decrease blood pressure. Hypotension is more severe with parenteral quinidine. Until more data are available, this drug combination should be avoided whenever possible.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperglycemia and hyperuricemia during concomitant use of diazoxide and diuretics. Both medications have been associated with these adverse effects and risk may be additive with concomitant use.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and amiloride together with caution as both drugs can cause metabolic acidosis. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Amiloride can alter the response to digoxin therapy if administered concomitantly. Typically, digoxin concentrations are slightly elevated by amiloride, and a reduced responsiveness to the positive inotropic effects of digoxin therapy has been noted in patients receiving both agents simultaneously. Patients receiving these two drugs concurrently should be monitored for altered responses to digoxin therapy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Dofetilide: (Major) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with dofetilide since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal cationic secretion. Increased dofetilide plasma concentrations may be associated with proarrhythmias.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Minor) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as amiloride, may decrease memantine elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of memantine and/or amiloride is recommended.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentration during concomitant drospirenone and potassium-sparing diuretic use due to increased risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentration during concomitant drospirenone and potassium-sparing diuretic use due to increased risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentration during concomitant drospirenone and potassium-sparing diuretic use due to increased risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentration during concomitant drospirenone and potassium-sparing diuretic use due to increased risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentration during concomitant drospirenone and potassium-sparing diuretic use due to increased risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Entecavir: (Moderate) Both entecavir and amiloride are secreted by active tubular secretion. In theory, coadministration of entecavir with amiloride may increase the serum concentrations of either drug due to competition for the drug elimination pathway. The manufacturer of entecavir recommends monitoring for adverse effects when these drugs are coadministered.
ePHEDrine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by potassium-sparing diuretics. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by potassium-sparing diuretics. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Eplerenone: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The combine use of these medications in patients with hypertension or renal impairment contraindicated.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Epoprostenol can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and escitalopram use; consider discontinuing escitalopram if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormone therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with fentanyl. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if finerenone and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant fish oil and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension; high doses of fish oil may produce a blood pressure lowering effect.
Fludrocortisone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Flunisolide: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and fluoxetine use; consider discontinuing fluoxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Fluticasone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with fluvoxamine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Hyponatremia due to SIADH has been reported during therapy with SSRIs. Cases involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/L have occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of fluvoxamine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosinopril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) In general, haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Hydrocortisone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydromorphone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and potassium-sparing diuretics as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations. (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Ibuprofen lysine: (Moderate) Ibuprofen lysine may reduce the effect of diuretics; diuretics can increase the risk of nephrotoxicity of NSAIDs in dehydrated patients. During coadministration of NSAIDs and diuretic therapy, patients should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy and for signs and symptoms of renal impairment.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Amiloride can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and diuretics due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant fish oil and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension; high doses of fish oil may produce a blood pressure lowering effect.
Iodine; Potassium Iodide, KI: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Iodixanol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iohexol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iopromide: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Ioversol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Irbesartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with levorphanol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Lisedexamfetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lisinopril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Lithium: (Minor) The risk of lithium toxicity may be increased in patients receiving medications that affect kidney function and sodium excretion, such as diuretics. However, concurrent use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) with lithium is generally regarded as safe. Lithium is primarily reabsorbed from the proximal tubules whereas potassium-sparing diuretics inhibit the endothelial sodium channel in the renal collecting duct thereby inhibiting reabsorption of sodium and lithium. In one small study evaluating concurrent use of lithium and spironolactone, lithium clearance was increased by 16%, which was not considered clinically significant. Amiloride has been safely used as a reversal agent for lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. There is a lack of evidence to evaluate the effect of lithium and triamterene co-administration, however, a significant interaction would not be expected due to the pharmacologic similarities with other potassium-sparing diuretics.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Losartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Sulfate; Sodium Sulfate: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Mannitol: (Major) Avoid use of other diuretics with mannitol, if possible. Concomitant administration may potentiate the renal toxicity of mannitol.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Memantine: (Minor) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as amiloride, may decrease memantine elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of memantine and/or amiloride is recommended.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with meperidine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with methadone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors promote electrolyte excretion including hydrogen ions, sodium, and potassium. They can enhance the sodium depleting effects of other diuretics when used concurrently. Pre-existing hypokalemia and hyperuricemia can also be potentiated by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Monitor serum potassium to determine the need for potassium supplementation and alteration in drug therapy.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of methohexital and antihypertensive agents increases the risk of developing hypotension.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
methylPREDNISolone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and mirtazapine use; consider discontinuing mirtazapine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Moexipril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Mometasone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a potassium-sparing diuretic and morphine; increase the dosage of the potassium-sparing diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Nefazodone: (Minor) Although relatively infrequent, nefazodone may cause orthostatic hypotension in some patients; this effect may be additive with antihypertensive agents. Blood pressure monitoring and dosage adjustments of either drug may be necessary.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Octreotide: (Moderate) Patients receiving diuretics or other agents to control fluid and electrolyte balance may require dosage adjustments while receiving octreotide due to additive effects.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and fluoxetine use; consider discontinuing fluoxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia. (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure if diuretics are used concomitantly with oliceridine; increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Olmesartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
oxyBUTYnin: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with oxycodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when potassium-sparring diuretics are administered with oxymorphone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and potassium-sparing diuretics who are susceptible to hypotension.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and paroxetine use; consider discontinuing paroxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Penicillin G: (Major) Concomitant use of high doses of parenteral penicillin G potassium with potassium-sparing diuretics can cause hyperkalemia.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when potassium-sparring diuretics are administered with pentazocine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perindopril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and phenelzine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Potassium Acetate: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Chloride: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Citrate: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Gluconate: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Iodide, KI: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and potassium-sparing diuretics as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and potassium-sparing diuretics as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Potassium: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used.
prednisoLONE: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
predniSONE: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Quinapril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Seven of ten patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia developed adverse reactions including sustained ventricular tachycardia and other somatic complaints during concomitant amiloride and quinidine administration. The therapeutic antiarrhythmic actions of quinidine were antagonized by amiloride. In addition, quinidine exerts either direct or indirect (alpha-adrenergic blockade) peripheral vasodilatory effects, which can decrease blood pressure. Hypotension is more severe with parenteral quinidine. Until more data are available, this drug combination should be avoided whenever possible.
Ramipril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and sertraline use; consider discontinuing sertraline if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Solifenacin: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms. Risk versus benefit should be addressed in patients receiving diuretics and solifenacin.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium-sparing diuretics. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Streptozocin: (Minor) Because streptozocin is nephrotoxic, concurrent or subsequent administration of other nephrotoxic agents (e.g., aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cisplatin, foscarnet, or diuretics) could exacerbate the renal insult.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with sufentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if trimethoprim and a potassium-sparing diuretic are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. The risk for trimethoprim-associated hyperkalemia is greatest in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia such as age greater than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tacrolimus and potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, due to the risk of hyperkalemia. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when potassium-sparing diuretics are administered with tapentadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Telmisartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients. (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Tolterodine: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Tolvaptan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with potassium-sparing diuretics compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with tramadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with tramadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Trandolapril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The use of hypotensive agents and tranylcypromine is contraindicated by the manufacturer of tranylcypromine because the effects of hypotensive agents may be markedly potentiated.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Triamcinolone: (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if trimethoprim and a potassium-sparing diuretic are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. The risk for trimethoprim-associated hyperkalemia is greatest in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia such as age greater than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim.
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of amiloride and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiloride and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Valsartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients receiving vilazodone with medications known to cause hyponatremia, such as diuretics, may be at increased risk of developing hyponatremia. Hyponatremia has occurred in association with the use of antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), and mirtazapine. Hyponatremia may manifest as headache, difficulty concentrating, memory impairment, confusion, weakness, and unsteadiness which may result in falls. Severe manifestations include hallucinations, syncope, seizure, coma, respiratory arrest, and death. Symptomatic hyponatremia may require discontinuation of vilazodone, as well as implementation of the appropriate medical interventions.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Warfarin: (Minor) Per the prescribing information for warfarin sodium, concomitant use of diuretics (carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, loop diuretics, osmotic diuretics, potassium-sparing diuretics, and thiazide diuretics) and warfarin may result in an increased or decreased PT/INR. Patients should be monitored for changes in the INR when either of these drugs is initiated or discontinued, or if the dosage is changed.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of amiloride and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiloride and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents. Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope.


Adverse Reaction
hyperkalemia


Amiloride-induced hyperkalemia can cause life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias, and it is more likely to occur in patients with renal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, or in geriatric patients. Signs and symptoms of hyperkalemia include reduced muscular strength, paresthesia, fatigability, flaccid paralysis of the extremities, sinus bradycardia, shock, and ECG changes. Patients who receive potassium supplements while taking amiloride, or patients with impaired renal function who are receiving amiloride therapy are particularly at risk for developing hyperkalemia, and periodic serum electrolyte, creatinine, and BUN determinations should be made. If hyperkalemia occurs, amiloride should be discontinued immediately, and specific measures should be taken to reduce serum potassium concentrations. Hyperkalemia (defined as serum potassium concentrations more than 5.5 mEq/L) occurs in about 10% of patients receiving amiloride. However, this percentage increases if amiloride is administered without a kaliuretic diuretic or in patients predisposed to hyperkalemia.


hypochloremia, hyponatremia


Amiloride therapy alone usually does not affect serum electrolytes other than potassium, but electrolyte imbalance (e.g., hyponatremia, hypochloremia) can result from a combination of amiloride with other diuretic therapy.


metabolic acidosis


Metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients receiving amiloride therapy and can potentiate the hyperkalemic effects of amiloride. Amiloride should be used with caution in patients who may be predisposed to developing metabolic acidosis or respiratory acidosis, including those with cardiopulmonary disease or uncontrolled diabetes mellitus.


abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, GI bleeding, nausea, peptic ulcer, vomiting, xerostomia


Adverse GI effects reportedly occurring in 3—8% of patients receiving amiloride therapy include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and anorexia. Abdominal pain, appetite changes, and constipation reportedly occur in 1—3% of patients. Xerostomia, abdominal fullness, dyspepsia, GI bleeding, and flatulence are reported in <= 1% of patients. Although rare, activation of probable pre-existing peptic ulcer has been reported with the administration of amiloride.


anxiety, arthralgia, back pain, chest pain (unspecified), confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, encephalopathy, headache, insomnia, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, tremor, vertigo, weakness


Adverse nervous system effects reported during amiloride therapy include headache in 3—8% of patients, and weakness, fatigue, dizziness, and encephalopathy in 1—3% of patients. Tremor, vertigo, nervousness (anxiety), mental confusion, insomnia, depression, and drowsiness were reported in <= 1% of patients. Muscular weakness may be a sign of drug-induced hyperkalemia, and muscle cramps were reported in 1—3% of patients. Myalgia, arthralgia, back pain, chest pain (unspecified), neck and shoulder ache (musculoskeletal pain), and pain in the extremities were reported in <= 1% of patients.


aplastic anemia, neutropenia


While their incidence is rare, aplastic anemia and neutropenia have been reported with amiloride therapy.


bladder spasm, dysuria, gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, polyuria


Impotence (erectile dysfunction) has been reported in 1—3% of patients receiving amiloride. Other adverse urogenital tract effects reported in <= 1% of patients include libido decrease, polyuria, dysuria, increased urinary frequency, and bladder spasm. Gynecomastia also has been reported in <= 1% of patients. 


angina, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations


Adverse cardiovascular effects reported in <= 1% of patients receiving amiloride include angina pectoris, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, and cardiac arrhythmias. Cardiac arrhythmias usually are associated with electrolyte imbalance such as hyperkalemia.


cough, dyspnea, nasal congestion, tinnitus, visual impairment


Cough and dyspnea were reported in 1—3% of patients receiving amiloride.  Visual impairment or disturbances, nasal congestion, tinnitus, increased intraocular pressure. 


elevated hepatic enzymes, jaundice


Jaundice has been reported in <= 1% of patients receiving amiloride, and although rare, elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported. 


alopecia, pruritus, rash (unspecified)


Dermatologic adverse reactions reported in <= 1% of patients receiving amiloride include rash (unspecified), pruritus, and alopecia.


diagnostic test interference


Due to diagnostic test interference, discontinue amiloride at least 3 days prior to glucose tolerance testing.


Description

Amiloride is an oral potassium-sparing diuretic similar in action to triamterene. It is not a thiazide diuretic. It is used in the treatment or prevention of hypokalemia associated with kaliuretic diuretics. It is also used in the management of edema and as an adjunct in hypertension. Although amiloride has little antihypertensive or diuretic activity compared with other diuretics, some additive effects have been noted when it is used concurrently with the thiazide or loop diuretics. The drug can be especially useful in patients who cannot tolerate or have been unresponsive to potassium supplements. Amiloride was approved by the FDA in 1981.

Mechanism Of Action

Amiloride, like triamterene, inhibits the sodium-potassium ion exchange mechanism in the distal renal tubule. The drug appears to interfere directly with sodium reabsorption in the distal tubule by inhibiting sodium transport mechanisms. An electrical-potential difference across the membrane is created, which acts to block the passive distal tubular secretion of potassium. This action is the primary cause of amiloride's potassium-sparing effects. Increased urinary excretion of sodium, bicarbonate, calcium, and water lead to a slight diuresis. Amiloride, unlike spironolactone, is not an aldosterone antagonist. It also does not inhibit carbonic anhydrase activity.
 
Amiloride is rarely used as the sole therapy to treat hypertension, but it does have mild hypotensive effects. Initially, diuretics lower blood pressure by decreasing cardiac output and reducing plasma and extracellular fluid volume. Cardiac output and the extracellular fluid volume eventually return to normal, but peripheral resistance is reduced, resulting in lower blood pressure. In general, diuretics worsen glucose tolerance, and exert detrimental effects on the lipid profile.

Pharmacokinetics

Amiloride is administered orally. The onset of diuresis is generally 2 hours after administration, with peak effects at 6—10 hours and a duration of action of 24 hours. The drug is 40% plasma protein-bound. The volume of distribution of amiloride suggests extensive extravascular distribution. It has been shown to cross the placenta and distribute into breast milk in animals, although it is not known if this also occurs in humans. Amiloride is not metabolized by the liver. Approximately 50% of a dose is excreted unchanged in the urine and another 40% excreted unchanged in the feces, possibly as unabsorbed drug or secondary to biliary elimination. The half-life is 6—9 hours in patients with normal renal function.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Approximately 50% of a dose of amiloride is absorbed after oral administration; peak amiloride plasma levels are obtained within 3—4 hours. Food can decrease the extent of absorption by 50%, but the rate of absorption is not altered.

Hepatic Impairment

In patients with hepatitis, the half-life, urinary recovery, and AUC of amiloride are increased.

Renal Impairment

Renal impairment reduced the clearance of amiloride, causing a prolongation of the half-life. The half-life has been reported to increase up to 144 hours in patients with end-stage renal disease.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer amiloride with food to minimize gastrointestinal effects.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

20 mg/day PO (manufacturer guidelines); 40 mg/day PO has been used.

Geriatric

20 mg/day PO (manufacturer guidelines); 40 mg/day PO has been used.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, doses up to 0.625 mg/kg/day PO (Max: 20 mg/day) have been recommended.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, doses up to 0.625 mg/kg/day PO (Max: 20 mg/day) have been recommended.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Amiloride Hydrochloride 5mg Oral tablet

Amiloride Hydrochloride 5mg, Hydrochlorothiazide 50mg Oral tablet

Amiloride Hydrochloride Bulk powder

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No specific dosage adjustment is needed in patients with hepatic impairment; see dosage for the treatment of ascites. Amiloride is not metabolized by the liver; however, drug accumulation may occur in patients with hepatorenal syndrome (see renal dosing). In general, diuretics should be used with caution in patients with hepatic disease since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma.

Renal Impairment

CrCl > 50 mL/min: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 10—50 mL/min: Reduce the recommended dose by 50%; however, amiloride should generally be avoided due to the risk of hyperkalemia. If amiloride use is necessary, monitor serum potassium closely.
CrCl < 10 mL/min: Contraindicated in patients with renal failure or anuria.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Amiloride is contraindicated in patients with renal failure or anuria.

© 2026 Elsevier