=== Methocarbamol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1444)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Methocarbamol is an oral and parenteral centrally acting musculoskeletal relaxant indicated for relief of acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions and for the adjuctive treatment of tetanus.

Routes: oral, injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 24 grams/day PO or 12 grams/day IV for tetanus; 8 grams/day PO or 3 grams/day IM/IV for acute muscle spasm and 4.5 grams/day PO in chronic use.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bradycardia, flushing, hypotension, syncope, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, pruritus, rash, urticaria, amnesia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, seizures, vertigo, jaundice, metallic taste, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, nystagmus

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Methocarbamol is contraindicated for use by patients hypersensitive to methocarbamol or to any component of the formulation. The vial stopper of the injection contains dry natural rubber and may cause an allergic reaction in patients with latex hypersensitivity.Methocarbamol injection should NOT be...

Brand Names
  - Robaxin
  - TANLOR

Dosage Forms
  - ATMEKSI 750mg/5mL Suspension
  - Methocarbamol 1,000mg Oral tablet
  - Methocarbamol 100mg/1mL Solution for injection
  - Methocarbamol 500mg Oral tablet
  - Methocarbamol 750mg Oral tablet
  - Methocarbamol Bulk powder
  - Robaxin 1000mg/10ml Solution for Injection
  - Robaxin 1000mg/10mL Solution for Injection (NOVAPLUS)
  - TANLOR 1000mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (tablets and oral suspension, e.g., Atmeksi)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1,500 mg PO 4 times daily for 48 to 72 hours, initially, then reduce dose to 1,500 mg PO 3 times daily, 1,000 mg PO 4 times daily, or 750 mg PO every 4 hours. Up to 8 g/day may be used for severe conditions.
        Heading
        Adolescents 16 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        1,500 mg PO 4 times daily for 48 to 72 hours, initially, then reduce dose to 1,500 mg PO 3 times daily, 1,000 mg PO 4 times daily, or 750 mg PO every 4 hours. Up to 8 g/day may be used for severe conditions.
      Heading
      Intravenous or Intramuscular dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 g IV or IM as a single dose may be adequate for moderate symptoms. May repeat dose every 8 hours up to 3 g/day for no more than 3 consecutive days for severe cases or in postoperative conditions in which oral administration is not feasible.
    Heading
    For the treatment of musculoskeletal pain associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage followed by Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 1 to 2 grams IV directly into the tubing of inserted indwelling needle, administered at a rate of 300 mg/minute. An additional 1 to 2 grams IV infusion may be given, for a total initial dose of up to 3 grams. Repeat dosage every 6 hours until a nasogastric (NG) tube can be inserted for oral therapy. The tablets may then be crushed and suspended in water or saline solutions and administered through the NG tube. Dosages of up to 24 grams/day NG/PO may be required.
        Heading
        Neonates, Infants, Children, and Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 15 mg/kg (or 500 mg/m2) IV every 6 hours, if needed. Do NOT exceed total dose of 1.8 grams/m2/day IV for 3 consecutive days. May be given by IV injection into tubing (max rate undiluted: 3 mL/minute) or by IV infusion.
    Heading
    For the adjunct treatment of tetanus

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Methocarbamol is contraindicated for use by patients hypersensitive to methocarbamol or to any component of the formulation. The vial stopper of the injection contains dry natural rubber and may cause an allergic reaction in patients with latex hypersensitivity.Methocarbamol injection should NOT be used in patients with known or suspected renal pathology such as renal impairment, renal failure, or renal disease. A much larger amount of polyethylene glycol 300 than is present in the recommended doses of the injection is known to have increased preexisting acidosis and urea retention in patients with renal impairment. Although the amount of polyethylene glycol present in methocarbamol injection is well within the limits of safety, caution dictates the contraindicated use of the injection in patients with known or suspected renal pathology. Methocarbamol tablets do not contain polyethylene glycol.Methocarbamol should be used cautiously, if at all, in patients with a seizure disorder. Methocarbamol may precipitate seizures.Safety and efficacy in children less than 16 years of age have not been established except in tetanus (see Dosage).Methocarbamol can cause sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery.Extravasation of methocarbamol during intravenous administration may result in thrombophlebitis, sloughing, and pain at the injection site.Methocarbamol is classified as FDA pregnancy category C. No animal studies have been performed. It is also not known whether methocarbamol can cause fetal harm when given to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Methocarbamol should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. Safe and effective use has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects of methocarbamol upon fetal development. There have been reports of fetal and congenital abnormalities following in utero exposure to methocarbamol. Therefore, methocarbamol should not be used in females who are pregnant or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless the benefits to the mother outweigh the possible fetal and maternal risks.Methocarbamol and/or its metabolites are excreted in the milk of animals studied (dogs); however, it is not known if whether methocarbamol or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. Therefore, the drug should be used with caution during breast-feeding.Methocarbamol is not recommended for use in the elderly because of the potential for anticholinergic side effects, sedation, and weakness. Effectiveness at doses tolerated in the geriatric population is questionable.Cautious use of methocarbamol may be warranted for patients with hepatic disease. In 8 patients with cirrhosis secondary to alcohol abuse, the mean total clearance of methocarbamol was reduced approximately 70% as compared with the value obtained in 8 age- and weight-matched healthy patients. Also, the mean elimination half-life was prolonged (3.38 +/- 1.62 hours) versus the value obtained from healthy patients (1.11 +/- 0.27 ).
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal disease
    General Information
    Methocarbamol injection is contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected renal disease pathology of any type, including renal impairment or renal failure. Polyethylene glycol 300 is present in the injection and is known to have increased preexisting acidosis and urea retention in individuals with renal impairment at larger doses than are present in the injection.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or doing any activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of methocarbamol are known. Methocarbamol can cause sedation, which may interfere with everyday activity. Use methocarbamol with caution in combination with ethanol ingestion or other CNS depressants.
    Headline
    seizure disorder
    General Information
    Caution should be observed in using the injectable form of methocarbamol in people with suspected or a known seizure disorder. Convulsive seizures have been reported during intravenous administration of methocarbamol in people with seizure disorders. The psychic trauma of the procedure may have been a contributing factor. Although several observers have reported success in terminating epileptiform seizures with methocarbamol injection, its administration to people with epilepsy is not recommended.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria identifies skeletal muscle relaxants, such as methocarbamol, as potentially inappropriate for geriatric adults. This is due to poor tolerance, potential anticholinergic effects, sedation, increased fracture risk, and questionable effectiveness at dosages that older adults can tolerate.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Limited data from case reports over decades of use with methocarbamol during pregnancy have not identified an increased risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. However, safe use of methocarbamol has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. There have been reports of fetal and congenital abnormalities with in utero exposure to methocarbamol. Use in pregnant individuals only if clearly needed, with extra caution during early pregnancy.   In 1 case, an infant was born with multiple joint contractures after in utero exposure to methocarbamol and propoxyphene for 3 days during the first trimester of pregnancy. In the Collaborative Perinatal Project, 6 infants with inguinal hernia were observed from a total of 119 in utero exposures to methocarbamol at any time during the pregnancies; however, a causal association between the drug and the defect was not established.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use methocarbamol with caution during breast-feeding. Methocarbamol and/or its metabolites are excreted in animal milk; however, there are no data on the presence of methocarbamol or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on a breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Based on its small molecular weight and low protein binding, it is likely to enter human milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding along with the patient's clinical need for methocarbamol.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Limited data from case reports over decades of use with methocarbamol during pregnancy have not identified an increased risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. However, safe use of methocarbamol has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. There have been reports of fetal and congenital abnormalities with in utero exposure to methocarbamol. Use in pregnant individuals only if clearly needed, with extra caution during early pregnancy.   In 1 case, an infant was born with multiple joint contractures after in utero exposure to methocarbamol and propoxyphene for 3 days during the first trimester of pregnancy. In the Collaborative Perinatal Project, 6 infants with inguinal hernia were observed from a total of 119 in utero exposures to methocarbamol at any time during the pregnancies; however, a causal association between the drug and the defect was not established.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use methocarbamol with caution during breast-feeding. Methocarbamol and/or its metabolites are excreted in animal milk; however, there are no data on the presence of methocarbamol or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on a breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Based on its small molecular weight and low protein binding, it is likely to enter human milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding along with the patient's clinical need for methocarbamol.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with skeletal muscle relaxants may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with skeletal muscle relaxants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a skeletal muscle relaxant, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a skeletal muscle relaxant is prescribed for a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the skeletal muscle relaxant and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with methocarbamol can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and methocarbamol. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and methocarbamol. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of baclofen and methocarbamol. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of methocarbamol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant prescribing of buprenorphine and methocarbamol for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Gradually tapering a patient off other CNS depressants or decreasing to the lowest effective dose is preferred in most cases of patients being treated for opioid use disorder. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Reserve concomitant prescribing of buprenorphine and methocarbamol for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Gradually tapering a patient off other CNS depressants or decreasing to the lowest effective dose is preferred in most cases of patients being treated for opioid use disorder. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol. (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol. (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with other CNS depressants, such as methocarbamol, can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and methocarbamol. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and methocarbamol. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol. (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol. (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Cholinesterase inhibitors: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Skeletal muscle relaxants should be combined cautiously with clozapine because they could cause additive depressant effects and possible respiratory depression or hypotension.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol. (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as methocarbamol, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Due to the anesthetic effects of dexmedetomidine, concurrent use with other CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, could result in additive sedative effects and possibly prolong recovery from anesthesia.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with methocarbamol can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dronabinol with other CNS depressants, such as methocarbamol, can potentiate the effects of dronabinol on respiratory depression.
droPERidol: (Major) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as droperidol. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and methocarbamol. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of fentanyl with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and methocarbamol. Concomitant use of gabapentin with methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Galantamine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Ketamine: (Moderate) The use of general anesthetics with other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate CNS depression and/or increase the risk of developing respiratory depression.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and methocarbamol. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and methocarbamol. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and methocarbamol may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial levorphanol dosage by 50% or more.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive hypotension, bradycardia, and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and methocarbamol. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and methocarbamol. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of methadone with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as methocarbamol, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Molindone: (Moderate) Molindone may cause central nervous system (CNS) depression thereby having additive effects with other drugs that can cause CNS depression such as methocarbamol. Caution is advisable during concurrent use.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of morphine with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. For extended-release morphine tablets (MS Contin and Morphabond), start with 15 mg every 12 hours. Morphine; naltrexone should be initiated at 1/3 to 1/2 the recommended starting dosage. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of nalbuphine with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Neostigmine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxymorphone dosage by one-third to one-half.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of pentazocine with methocarbamol may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of pentazocine with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as methocarbamol.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
PHYSostigmine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and methocarbamol. Concomitant use of pregabalin with methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Primidone: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
pyRIDostigmine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of remifentanil with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and methocarbamol. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with skeletal muscle relaxants may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with skeletal muscle relaxants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a skeletal muscle relaxant, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a skeletal muscle relaxant is prescribed for a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the skeletal muscle relaxant and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide frequently causes drowsiness and somnolence and may enhance the sedative activity of methocarbamol.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and phenothiazines due to the risk for additive CNS depression; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of methocarbamol and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as methocarbamol. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Ziprasidone has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. Additive CNS depressant effects are possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with any CNS depressant, including methocarbamol.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The most common adverse reactions to methocarbamol are drowsiness, dizziness, and lightheadedness. Blurred vision, fever, headache, and nausea/vomiting may also occur after oral, IV, or IM administration. Anorexia has been reported following oral methocarbamol. Diplopia, dyspepsia, flushing, hypotension, metallic taste, mild muscular incoordination, nystagmus, sinus bradycardia, syncope, and vertigo have occurred following IM or IV administration of methocarbamol. Most patients with methocarbamol-induced syncope recover with supportive treatment, however, epinephrine, corticosteroids, and/or antihistamines have been used to increase the rate of recovery in some patients. Adynamic ileus was reported in one patient who received a total of 10 g of methocarbamol orally.Allergic reactions such as conjunctivitis with nasal congestion, pruritus, skin eruptions, skin rash, and urticaria have occurred in patients receiving methocarbamol. Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported following intramuscular or intravenous administration of methocarbamol.Extravasation of methocarbamol during intravenous administration may result in phlebitis, sloughing, and pain at the injection site. Intramuscular administration may cause an injection site reaction (local irritation, pain). Intravenous injection may cause a small amount of hemolysis and increased hemoglobin and red blood cells in the urine (hematuria). Leukopenia may occur rarely. Although a causal relationship has not been established, seizures have been reported during intravenous administration.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    bradycardia, flushing, hypotension, syncope
    General Information
    Flushing, hypotension, bradycardia, and syncope have occurred following administration of methocarbamol, particularly with parenteral administration. In people receiving parenteral methocarbamol, a recumbent position during and following administration will reduce the likelihood of vascular reactions. Most people with methocarbamol-induced syncope recover with supportive treatment. However, epinephrine, corticosteroids, and/or antihistamines have been used to increase the rate of recovery in some people.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions and angioedema have been reported during methocarbamol treatment. Other allergic reactions including pruritus, rash, and urticaria have been noted.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    injection site reaction, phlebitis
    General Information
    Methocarbamol injection is hypertonic, and care must be taken to avoid extravasation. Extravasation of methocarbamol during intravenous administration may result in phlebitis, sloughing, and pain at the injection site. Intramuscular administration may cause an injection site reaction (local irritation, pain). Thrombophlebitis has been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      phlebitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    amnesia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, seizures, vertigo
    General Information
    Neurologic reactions to methocarbamol include drowsiness (common), dizziness, vertigo, amnesia, confusion, headache, insomnia, and sedation. In people receiving parenteral methocarbamol, a recumbent position during and following administration will reduce the likelihood of vascular reactions that lead to dizziness. Mild muscular incoordination as well as seizures (including grand mal) have been reported. Administration of IV methocarbamol to people with epilepsy is not recommended, as convulsive seizures have been reported in this population with IV use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    dyspepsia, jaundice, metallic taste, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Methocarbamol has been associated with adverse digestive system reactions, including dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, metallic taste, and jaundice, including cholestatic jaundice.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      metallic taste
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, nystagmus
    General Information
    Ocular adverse reactions associated with methocarbamol include diplopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, and nystagmus.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nystagmus
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    leukopenia
    General Information
    Leukopenia has been observed with methocarbamol therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    fever, nasal congestion
    General Information
    General adverse effects reported with methocarbamol use include fever and nasal congestion.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    urine discoloration
    General Information
    Methocarbamol may cause urine discoloration, and turn urine to turn black, blue, or green. While this effect is harmless, it can cause laboratory test interference in certain screening tests for 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urine discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Methocarbamol may cause a laboratory test interference by causing a color interference in certain screening tests for 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) using nitrosonaphthol reagent and in screening tests for urinary vanillylmandelic acid (VMA) using the Gitlow method.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      laboratory test interference
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Methocarbamol is an oral and parenteral centrally acting musculoskeletal relaxant indicated for relief of acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions and for the adjuctive treatment of tetanus. It is not indicated for spasticity. Methocarbamol has sedative properties and it may cause central nervous system (CNS) depression. Caution individuals about the risks of CNS depression and use during activities requiring mental alertness. Methocarbamol was FDA-approved in 1957.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The mechanism of action of methocarbamol in humans has not been established but may be due to general central nervous system (CNS) depression. It has no direct action on the contractile mechanism of striated muscle, the motor end plate, or the nerve fiber.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Tablets
After administration of methocarbamol, a Cmax of approximately 1.65 mcg/mL occurs in approximately 2 hours. The onset of action is usually within 30 minutes after oral administration.
 
Suspension (e.g., Atmeksi)
Following oral administration, methocarbamol is rapidly absorbed with a median Tmax of 0.66 hours. Food decreases the extent and delays the rate of absorption of methocarbamol. In the presence of food, the Cmax is decreased by 51% and the AUC is decreased by 31%. The median Tmax is delayed to 1.6 hours.
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of methocarbamol when given intravenously are unknown.
    Name
    Intramuscular Route
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of methocarbamol when given intramuscularly are unknown.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In 8 subjects with cirrhosis secondary to alcohol abuse, the mean total clearance of methocarbamol was reduced approximately 70% compared with the clearance in 8 age- and weight-matched healthy subjects. The mean elimination half-life was prolonged (3.38 +/- 1.62 hours) in people with cirrhosis compared to the half-life in healthy people (1.11 +/- 0.27 hours).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The mean elimination half-life of methocarbamol was similar among subjects receiving maintenance hemodialysis (1.2 +/- 0.6 hours) compared with the half-life in healthy people (1.1 +/- 0.3 hours). The clearance of methocarbamol among the maintenance hemodialysis subjects was reduced about 40% compared with the clearance in healthy people.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The mean (+/- SD) elimination half-life of methocarbamol in healthy geriatric volunteers (mean age, 69 +/- 4 years) was slightly prolonged (half-life 1.5 +/- 0.4 hours) compared to a younger adult population (mean age, 53.3 +/- 8.8 years) (half-life 1.1 +/- 0.27 hours). The fraction of bound methocarbamol was slightly decreased in the geriatric vs. younger volunteers (41% to 43% vs. 46% to 50%, respectively).
  Text
  Methocarbamol is administered intramuscularly, intravenously, or orally. It demonstrates moderate binding to plasma proteins, typically ranging from 46% to 50%. Methocarbamol is extensively metabolized by dealkylation and hydroxylation in the liver; conjugation is also likely. Essentially, all methocarbamol metabolites are eliminated in the urine. Small amounts of unchanged methocarbamol are also excreted in the urine. The plasma clearance of methocarbamol ranges between 0.2 and 0.8 L/hour/kg. The mean plasma elimination half-life is about 1 to 2 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer without regard to meals.
Nasogastric (NG) tube administration: Crush and suspend the tablet in water or saline solution to allow for NG tube administration.
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Oral Suspension (e.g., Atmeksi)
Shake well for at least 30 seconds prior to administration to ensure the suspension is uniform.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      IV Injection Administration
May be administered undiluted by direct IV injection at a maximum rate of 300 mg (3 mL of 10% injection) per minute.
Methocarbamol does not mix with any blood that may be aspirated into the syringe during administration; blood in the syringe can either be injected with the drug or the injection of methocarbamol can be stopped when the plunger reaches the blood.
Avoid extravasation of this hypertonic solution, which may result in thrombophlebitis.
Place the individual in a recumbent position during and for at least 10 to 15 minutes following the injection.
Switch to oral therapy as soon as feasible.
 
Intravenous Infusion Administration
Dilute 1 vial (10 mL) with up to 250 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection. Do not refrigerate diluted solution.
The maximum infusion rate is 300 mg/minute.
Avoid extravasation of this hypertonic solution, which may result in thrombophlebitis.
Place the individual in a recumbent position during and for at least 10 to 15 minutes following the injection.
Switch to oral therapy as soon as feasible.
 
Special Notes Regarding Administration for Treatment of Tetanus
Administration appears to have a beneficial effect in the control of the neuromuscular manifestations of tetanus, but does not replace tetanus antitoxin treatment or other usual supportive care for this condition.
For adults: Give initial doses intravenously directly into the tubing of the previously inserted indwelling needle; do not exceed maximal rates of administration. Once a nasogastric tube is placed, oral tablets may then be given through the tube as directed.
For pediatric individuals: Initial and maintenance dosages may be given by injection into tubing or by intravenous infusion with an appropriate quantity of fluid. Do not exceed maximal rates of administration.
      Name
      Intramuscular Administration
      Description
      Administer undiluted. Do not administer more than 500 mg (5 mL of 10% methocarbamol injection) into each gluteal region.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    24 grams/day PO or 12 grams/day IV for tetanus; 8 grams/day PO or 3 grams/day IM/IV for acute muscle spasm and 4.5 grams/day PO in chronic use.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    24 grams/day PO or 12 grams/day IV for tetanus; 8 grams/day PO or 3 grams/day IM/IV for acute muscle spasm and 4.5 grams/day PO in chronic use.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    16 to 17 years: 8 grams/day PO or 3 grams/day IM/IV for acute muscle spasm (first 48 to 72 hours) and 4.5 grams/day PO in chronic use; 1.8 grams/m2/day IV for tetanus.
13 to 15 years: 1.8 grams/m2/day IV for tetanus; safety and efficacy have not been established for other indications.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    1.8 grams/m2/day IV for tetanus; safety and efficacy have not been established for other indications.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Use methocarbamol with caution in people with hepatic impairment. No quantitative dosage recommendations are available.
  Renal Impairment
  Tablets or Oral Suspension:
No dosage adjustment recommendations are available.
 
Injection:
Do not use methocarbamol injection in people with known or suspected renal pathology because of the polyethylene glycol 300 component in the formulation.
