=== Butalbital/Acetaminophen (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 836)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetaminophen, a non-salicylate analgesic, and butalbital, a barbiturate, are used together in oral products to treat tension headaches in adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older, especially when antianxiety or relaxant effects are needed.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Butalbital 300 mg per day PO and acetaminophen 3,900 mg per day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, emotional lability, euphoria, fatigue, hot flashes, impaired cognition, lethargy, paresthesias, ptosis, seizures, syncope, vertigo, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, malaise, interstitial nephritis, renal failure (unspecified), renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis, agranulocytosis, neutropenia, pancytopenia

In an Overdose: Ptosis may also occur, especially with an overdose situation. In most cases, acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity occurs as a result of an acute overdose; however, moderately excessive doses, if taken chronically, may also produce hepatotoxicity.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: The monograph discusses the use of acetaminophen; butalbital combination products.

Brand Names
  - Allzital
  - Axocet
  - Bucet
  - Bupap
  - Cephadyn
  - Dolgic
  - Marten
  - ORBIVAN CF
  - Phrenilin
  - Phrenilin Forte
  - Promacet
  - Repan CF
  - Sedapap
  - Tencon

Dosage Forms
  - Allzital 25mg-325mg Tablet
  - BAC 50mg-325mg-40mg Tablet
  - Butalbital 25mg, Acetaminophen 325mg Oral tablet
  - Butalbital 50mg, Acetaminophen 300mg Oral capsule
  - Butalbital 50mg, Acetaminophen 300mg Oral tablet
  - Butalbital 50mg, Acetaminophen 300mg, Caffeine 40mg Oral capsule
  - Butalbital 50mg, Acetaminophen 300mg, Caffeine 40mg, Codeine Phosphate 30mg Oral capsule
  - Butalbital 50mg, Acetaminophen 325mg Oral tablet
  - Butalbital 50mg, Acetaminophen 325mg, Caffeine 40mg Oral capsule
  - Butalbital 50mg, Acetaminophen 325mg, Caffeine 40mg Oral tablet
  - Butalbital 50mg, Acetaminophen 325mg, Caffeine 40mg, Codeine Phosphate 30mg Oral capsule
  - Fioricet 50mg-300mg-40mg Capsule
  - Repan 325mg-50mg-40mg Tablet
  - TENCON 50mg-325mg Tablet
  - Vanatol S 50mg-325mg-40mg/15mL Solution

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General dosing information:
Maximum daily dosage limits for acetaminophen are based on all routes of administration (e.g., intravenous, oral, rectal) and all products containing acetaminophen, including both single-entity and combination products. Exceeding maximum daily dosage limits can result in hepatic injury, hepatic failure, and death. In an attempt to reduce the risk of hepatotoxicity, the FDA has recommended limiting the amount of acetaminophen in prescription combination products to 325 mg per dosage unit.
Extended use is inadvisable due to the habit-forming and abusable nature of butalbital. The safety and efficacy of butalbital; acetaminophen for multiple, recurrent headaches is not established.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (products with acetaminophen 300 mg or 325 mg and butalbital 50 mg/oral dosage form, e.g., Bupap, Marten)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 to 2 tablets PO every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 6 tablets/day.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 years and older
        Dosage Description
        1 to 2 tablets PO every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 6 tablets/day.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (products with acetaminophen 325 mg and butalbital 25 mg per tablet, e.g., Allzital)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 tablets PO every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 12 tablets/day.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 years and older
        Dosage Description
        2 tablets PO every 4 hours as needed. Do not exceed 12 tablets/day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of the symptom complex of tension (muscle contraction) headache

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: The monograph discusses the use of acetaminophen; butalbital combination products. Clinicians may wish to consult the acetaminophen monograph for more information about the specific contraindications and precautions for acetaminophen.
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital is contraindicated in patients with barbiturate hypersensitivity, acetaminophen hypersensitivity, or hypersensitivity or intolerance to any product component. Barbiturates and acetaminophen can cause severe and potentially fatal reactions (e.g. toxic epidermal necrolysis). Acetaminophen; butalbital should be prescribed only after critical benefit-to-risk appraisal in patients with a history of adverse hematologic (i.e., agranulocytosis), hypersensitivity, or other adverse reactions to acetaminophen, barbiturates or other anticonvulsants. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients who previously experienced hydantoin hypersensitivity (e.g., phenytoin) or carbamazepine hypersensitivity. Estimates of cross-sensitivity vary, but may range from 30—80%. There is no way to predict with certainty which patients will exhibit cross-sensitivity.
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital is contraindicated in patients with porphyria. Butalbital can exacerbate this disease. Barbiturates can stimulate the activity of enzymes like ALA synthetase, which can cause a buildup of porphyrin precursors and thus, enhancement of porphyrin synthesis.
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital should be used with caution in patients with depression or suicidal ideation. Butalbital has CNS depressant effects (see Adverse Reactions). Also, patients with an anxiety disorder may not be appropriate candidates for acetaminophen; butalbital, especially for use beyond a single dose. Anxiety can be exacerbated if a patient develops withdrawal symptoms after stopping acetaminophen; butalbital. Also, regular use of the product may obscure appropriate diagnosis and treatment of an anxiety disorder.
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital should be prescribed cautiously to the elderly, debilitated patients, and patients with cardiac disease (e.g., angina, cardiac arrhythmias, hypertension, hypotension, or immediately following a myocardial infarction) because of possible adverse hemodynamic effects (see Adverse Reactions). Elderly patients may experience increased side effects such as, excitement, confusion or depression. With the exception of phenobarbital and usage of barbiturates for seizure control, barbiturate usage is not recommended for patients over the age of 65 years. Also, according to U.S. federal OBRA regulations, butalbital is not to be used in a nursing home patient, unless started before admission to the nursing home, or given as a single dose for a medical or dental procedure. Discontinuation should be gradually attempted at least twice in one year before discontinuation is considered 'clinically contraindicated.'
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital should be used carefully in patients with hepatic disease (e.g., alcoholic hepatic disease or viral hepatitis), as there is an increased risk for developing drug toxicity from acetaminophen (see Adverse Reactions). Acetaminophen; butalbital should not be used in patients who consume 3 or more alcoholic beverages per day (see Drug Interactions). In addition to altered hepatic metabolism of acetaminophen, the CNS depressant effects of alcohol and butalbital are additive. Avoid ethanol, ethanol intoxication, or concomitant use of other sedating drugs that may magnify CNS depression. Hepatically-impaired patients may require a lower dosage and slower dosage titration; avoid acetaminophen; butalbital usage by patients with severe liver impairment. Also, acetaminophen; butalbital use with caution in patients with hepatic encephalopathy, as the liver's ability to metabolize ammonia is inadequate. Regular liver function test assessment is recommended for patients with hepatic disease while taking acetaminophen; butalbital.
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital should be used carefully in patients with renal failure or renal disease, such as renal impairment. Chronic acetaminophen administration should be avoided in patients with underlying renal disease; however acetaminophen may be the analgesic of choice for episodic pain in these patients. There appears to be an increased risk of developing papillary necrosis, chronic renal failure or end-stage renal disease with chronic acetaminophen use. There are many confounding factors that limit the determination of the actual role of chronic acetaminophen use as a single risk factor for renal disease. In a case-controlled study of patients with early renal failure, the regular use of acetaminophen (without aspirin) was associated with a risk of chronic renal failure that was 2.5-times as high as that for non-acetaminophen users. The risk increased with an increasing cumulative acetaminophen lifetime dose. The average dose used during periods of regular acetaminophen use also correlated with risk as those who took > 500 g per year (>=1.4 g/day) during periods of regular use had an odds ratio for chronic renal failure of 5.3; duration of therapy was unrelated to risk. In this study, it appears that pre-existing renal disease or systemic disease is a required precursor to the development of analgesic-induced renal failure; patients without preexisting renal disease who used analgesics had only a small risk of developing end-stage renal disease. Regular assessments of renal function are recommended for patients with renal disease while taking acetaminophen; butalbital.
 
Because butalbital can cause dose-dependent respiratory depression, acetaminophen; butalbital should be used cautiously in patients with respiratory depression, dyspnea, severe respiratory insufficiency or airway obstruction. Use with close supervision in patients with sleep apnea or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), such as chronic bronchitis or emphysema. Avoid acetaminophen; butalbital use in patients with status asthmaticus. Use cautiously in patients with asthma who also have salicylate hypersensitivity. Of 50 patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma, 17 had either a naso-ocular or bronchospastic reaction after ingestion of either 1000 mg or 1500 mg of acetaminophen. The magnitude of FEV1 decline after a mean aspirin dose of 47 mg was similar to the decline seen after a mean acetaminophen dose of 1227 mg. The lower the aspirin provocative dose, the more likely patients were to cross-react to acetaminophen. For example, 5 of 6 patients with aspirin-induced bronchospasm after a dose of 30 mg or less had cross-reactivity to acetaminophen whereas no patients had cross-reactivity when the provocative aspirin dose was at least 150 mg. The acetaminophen challenges were performed before any aspirin challenges and all patients had a measured FEV1 of at least 70% of predicted or best previously recorded value, an absolute value greater than 1.5 liters, and a fall of less than 15% in FEV1 from morning baseline during placebo challenges.
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital may cause drowsiness or dizziness, especially with initial or repeated use. Patients should use caution when driving or operating machinery until they are aware of the effects of the drug.
 
Patients with G6PD deficiency who overdose with acetaminophen; butalbital may be at increased risk for drug-induced hemolysis. During acetaminophen overdose, cyanosis may not be apparent in patients with pre-existing anemia, despite dangerously high blood concentrations of methemoglobin. Treatment of methemoglobinemia may be necessary (see Adverse Reactions).
 
Safety and efficacy of acetaminophen; butalbital combinations have not been established in children and infants < 12 years of age.
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital combinations are classified as FDA pregnancy-risk category C and should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed by the mother. Both acetaminophen and butalbital cross the placenta. There have been reports of physical abnormalities in babies correlating with in utero barbiturate exposure. Additionally, in utero exposure to barbiturates appears to be associated with intelligence deficits. Repeated use of butalbital by the mother during the third trimester can also cause physical dependence in the neonate. A withdrawal seizure occurred in a 2-day old infant whose mother had been taking a butalbital-containing medication during the last 2 months of her pregnancy. Butalbital was present in the infant's serum. Receipt of phenobarbital 5 mg/kg caused seizure cessation and no further withdrawal symptoms occurred in the infant during phenobarbital dose tapering. If the mother used butabarbital late in pregnancy, newborns should be carefully observed for signs of ventilatory depression, particularly if the infant is premature. There is no established use for acetaminophen; butalbital during labor or obstetric delivery. Females should be warned of the potential adverse effects on the fetus should pregnancy occur while taking acetaminophen; butalbital.
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital are excreted in small amounts into the breast milk. Discontinuation of breast-feeding or of acetaminophen; butalbital use by the mother is recommended, as serious adverse effects in neonates or infants could occur. Chronic barbiturate use by the mother may cause barbiturate dependence in the breast-fed infant.
 
Symptoms of acute infection or acute abdomen (e.g., fever, pain) can be masked during treatment with acetaminophen; butalbital. Patients with bone marrow suppression or immunosuppression may be at greater risk of an infection. All patients need to be educated about the possible absence of pain and fever with an infection.
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital should be used with caution in patients with head trauma. The CNS depressant effects of butalbital may further obscure the clinical course of head injury patients.
 
Acetaminophen; butalbital combinations should be prescribed with caution to patients with known substance abuse because of the potential for psychological and/or physical dependence to butalbital. Avoid abrupt discontinuation of acetaminophen; butalbital after prolonged use to limit drug withdrawal and/or seizure onset. Discontinuation of butalbital results in an increase in CNS activation, which can cause unpleasant and possibly life-threatening effects (see Adverse Reactions). Precipitation of acute seizures, status epilepticus, or other seizure disorders may occur, especially in patients with epilepsy and patients with alcoholism.
 
Butalbital may decrease the effect of oral coumarin (e.g., warfarin) anticoagulant therapy (see Drug Interactions) and necessitate upward warfarin dosage adjustment. Conversely, when butalbital is discontinued, the warfarin dose may need to be decreased.
 
Patients with malnutrition, such as some patients with anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, or alcoholism may be at greater risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity. Reduction and possible depletion of hepatic glutathione concentrations occur with fasting and in states of malnutrition. Glutathione is necessary for inactivation of the hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Furthermore, fasting shifts the metabolic pathway away from glucuronidation towards oxidation, which results in greater NAPQI amounts that need to be inactivated by conjugation with glutathione. Restriction of the total daily acetaminophen dosage to 2 grams has been suggested for patients with alcoholism or severe malnutrition.
 
Orthotopic liver transplant recipients appear to be at higher risk of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity within the first 3 months of the organ transplant. During metabolism of acetaminophen, the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinonimine (NAPQI), is inactivated, which produces thioether metabolites (see Pharmacokinetics). After receipt of a 500 mg dose of acetaminophen, the percentage urinary recovery of thioether conjugates was 15.4 +/- 4.29, 12.2 +/- 5.18, and 6.3 +/- 2.81 on days 2, 10, and 90 after transplantation, respectively. Conversely, the recovery of sulfate and glucuronide conjugates increased over time. Normally, glucoronidation and sulfation account for most of the metabolism of acetaminophen. A shift towards greater oxidation of acetaminophen to produce NAPQI over the first few months after liver transplantation appears to occur.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    acute abdomen
    General Information
    Use butalbital; acetaminophen with caution in individuals with acute abdomen.
    Headline
    porphyria
    General Information
    Butalbital; acetaminophen is contraindicated in individuals with porphyria.
    Headline
    alcohol use disorder, ethanol ingestion, hepatic disease, hepatotoxicity, hypovolemia, malnutrition
    General Information
    Use butalbital; acetaminophen with caution in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Monitor the effects of therapy in individuals with severe hepatic impairment with serial liver function tests. Acetaminophen has been associated with hepatotoxicity. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses more than 4 g/day, and often involve more than 1 acetaminophen-containing product. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying hepatic disease and with chronic ethanol ingestion while taking acetaminophen, which may be defined as 3 or more alcohol beverages per day. Use acetaminophen with caution in individuals with alcohol use disorder, chronic malnutrition, severe hypovolemia (i.e., due to dehydration or blood loss), or severe renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less).
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use butalbital; acetaminophen with caution in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure. Monitor the effects of therapy in individuals with severe renal impairment with serial renal function tests. Butalbital is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of adverse reactions to butalbital may be greater in individuals with renal impairment. Longer dosing intervals or a reduced total daily dose of acetaminophen may be warranted in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less). Additionally, severe renal impairment may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration during butalbital; acetaminophen therapy. Butalbital; acetaminophen may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for performance of potentially hazardous tasks.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Use butalbital; acetaminophen with caution in geriatric adults or debilitated individuals. In general, use cautious dose selection for butalbital; acetaminophen in geriatric adults, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. According to the Beers Criteria, barbiturates such as butalbital are considered potentially inappropriate medications in geriatric adults and should be avoided due to the high rate of physical dependence, tolerance to sedative effects, and risk of overdose at low dosages. Avoid barbiturate-containing medication products in those with a history of fall or fractures since these drugs can produce ataxia, impaired psychomotor function, syncope, and additional falls. If butalbital must be used, consider reducing the use of other CNS-active medications and implement other strategies to reduce fall risk.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of butalbital; acetaminophen during pregnancy due to the increased risk of birth defects, including cardiac malformations. An observed association has been seen between the periconceptional maternal butalbital use and congenital heart defects, such as pulmonary valve stenosis, right ventricular outflow tract obstructions, left ventricular outflow tract obstructions, and septal heart defects. There are also reports of physical abnormalities and intelligence deficits in infants correlating to exposure to barbiturates in utero. Butalbital may also cause neonatal withdrawal. Withdrawal seizures were reported in a 2-day-old infant exposed to a butalbital-containing drug in utero during the last 2 months of pregnancy. Butalbital was found in the infant's serum. The infant was given phenobarbital 5 mg/kg, which was tapered without further seizure or other withdrawal symptoms. Acetaminophen, when used as a single agent, has long been established as the analgesic and antipyretic of choice for short-term use during pregnancy.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking butalbital; acetaminophen due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. Butalbital and acetaminophen are present in human milk. Butalbital in breast milk has caused poor feeding and vomiting in one infant. Other agents are preferred, especially when feeding a newborn or preterm infant. Acetaminophen, as a single agent, is compatible with breast-feeding and is considered a first-line choice for analgesia, headache, or fever in the lactating individual, including for those patients who are immediately postpartum and planning to breastfeed. Amounts present in milk are much less than the doses usually given to infants, and adverse effects in breastfed infants appear to be rare. There is one well-documented report of rash occurring in a breastfed infant that resolved with drug discontinuation and recurred when acetaminophen was resumed.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of butalbital; acetaminophen during pregnancy due to the increased risk of birth defects, including cardiac malformations. An observed association has been seen between the periconceptional maternal butalbital use and congenital heart defects, such as pulmonary valve stenosis, right ventricular outflow tract obstructions, left ventricular outflow tract obstructions, and septal heart defects. There are also reports of physical abnormalities and intelligence deficits in infants correlating to exposure to barbiturates in utero. Butalbital may also cause neonatal withdrawal. Withdrawal seizures were reported in a 2-day-old infant exposed to a butalbital-containing drug in utero during the last 2 months of pregnancy. Butalbital was found in the infant's serum. The infant was given phenobarbital 5 mg/kg, which was tapered without further seizure or other withdrawal symptoms. Acetaminophen, when used as a single agent, has long been established as the analgesic and antipyretic of choice for short-term use during pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking butalbital; acetaminophen due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. Butalbital and acetaminophen are present in human milk. Butalbital in breast milk has caused poor feeding and vomiting in one infant. Other agents are preferred, especially when feeding a newborn or preterm infant. Acetaminophen, as a single agent, is compatible with breast-feeding and is considered a first-line choice for analgesia, headache, or fever in the lactating individual, including for those patients who are immediately postpartum and planning to breastfeed. Amounts present in milk are much less than the doses usually given to infants, and adverse effects in breastfed infants appear to be rare. There is one well-documented report of rash occurring in a breastfed infant that resolved with drug discontinuation and recurred when acetaminophen was resumed.

Interactions
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Abemaciclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when dihydrocodeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with a barbiturate can decrease dihydrocodeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased dihydromorphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of dihydrocodeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine. (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may decrease oxycodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Minor) Acetazolamide can induce osteomalacia in patients treated chronically with barbiturates. Potential mechanisms for this interaction include a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor induced increase in the urinary excretion of calcium and an increase in barbiturate effects resulting from metabolic acidosis. Acetazolamide can also increase the rate of excretion of weakly acidic drugs, such as barbiturates.
Acoramidis: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of adagrasib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased adagrasib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Adagrasib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced adagrasib exposure by more than 66%.
Aficamten: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to budesonide. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to budesonide during concurrent use.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of alfentanil with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of alfentanil with a barbiturate may decrease alfentanil plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; alfentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in amiodarone efficacy during concomitant use of amiodarone and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease amiodarone exposure. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
amLODIPine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Amobarbital: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Amoxapine: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of amoxapine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Antacids: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Apremilast: (Major) The coadministration of apremilast and barbiturates is not recommended. Apremilast is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4, with minor metabolism by CYP1A2; barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers and also induce CYP1A2. Coadministration of rifampin, another strong CYP3A4 inducer, with a single dose of apremilast resulted in a decrease in apremilast AUC and Cmax by 72% and 43%, respectively. A similar reduction in systemic exposure may be seen with coadministration of apremilast and barbiturates which may result in a loss of efficacy of apremilast.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Use caution if acetaminophen and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in acetaminophen-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Acetaminophen is a minor (10 to 15%) substrate of CYP3A4. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of acetaminophen. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Armodafinil: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may decrease oxycodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Atazanavir: (Major) Coadministration of butalbital and atazanavir may increase the metabolism of atazanavir and lead to decreased atazanavir concentrations resulting in reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and development of viral resistance. If atazanavir and butalbital are used together, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of butalbital and atazanavir may increase the metabolism of atazanavir and lead to decreased atazanavir concentrations resulting in reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and development of viral resistance. If atazanavir and butalbital are used together, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Atogepant: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with barbiturates can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Avanafil: (Minor) Avanafil is a substrate of and primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. It can be expected that concomitant administration of CYP3A4 enzyme-inducers will decrease plasma levels of avanafil, however, no interaction studies have been performed. CYP3A4 inducers include barbiturates.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with butalbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Avatrombopag: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with butalbital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Azelastine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine, an antihistamine, is combined with CNS depressants including the barbiturates.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine, an antihistamine, is combined with CNS depressants including the barbiturates. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to fluticasone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to fluticasone during concurrent use.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Barbiturates: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in baxdrostat efficacy during concomitant use with barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease baxdrostat exposure. Baxdrostat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of barbiturates with bedaquiline. Barbiturates may induce CYP3A4 metabolism resulting in decreased bedaquiline systemic exposure (AUC) and possibly reduced therapeutic effect.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opium with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if barbiturate treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Barbiturates may decrease bendamustine exposure, which may result in decreased efficacy. Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are CYP1A2 inducers.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of benzhydrocodone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with a barbiturate may decrease benzhydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; benzhydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Benztropine: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of benztropine.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for reduced lenacapavir exposure, which may lead to loss of therapeutic efficacy and development of resistance. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with barbiturates is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day barbiturates are initiated, which should be at least 2 days after lenacapavir initiation, a supplemental dose of 927 mg subcutaneously and 600 mg orally should be given (Step 1). The following day, an additional oral dose of 600 mg should be administered (Step 2). If the barbiturate is continued for longer than 6 months, this 2-step supplemental dosing regimen must be repeated every 6 months. After discontinuation of barbiturates, the standard 6-month injection schedule for lenacapavir should be resumed. Recommendations are not available for those already on barbiturates at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 84%.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Because bortezomib undergoes significant metabolism by the cytochrome P450 system, induction of CYP450 enzymes by the barbiturates may increase the clearance and metabolism of this drug and may result in decreased therapeutic effects.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Because brexpiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the brexpiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates and primidone, are added to brexpiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in brexpiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the brexpiprazole dose should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with butalbital due to decreased plasma exposure to brigatinib which may result in decreased efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, after 7 days of concomitant treatment with butalbital, increase the dose of brigatinib as tolerated in 30 mg increments to a maximum of twice the original brigatinib dose. After discontinuation of butalbital, resume the brigatinib dose that was tolerated prior to initiation of butalbital. Brigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 50%.
Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Brimonidine; Brinzolamide: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Brivaracetam: (Minor) Plasma concentrations of brivaracetam may decrease during co-administration with barbiturates. A 19% decrease in the plasma concentration of brivaracetam was observed during co-administration with phenobarbital; however, no dose adjustment is recommended for brivaracetam during concomitant therapy.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Caution and close monitoring are advised if bromocriptine and butalbital are used together. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of bromocriptine resulting in loss of efficacy. Bromocriptine is extensively metabolized by the liver via CYP3A4; butalbital is a moderate inducer of CYP3A4.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as brompheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as brompheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as brompheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as brompheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as brompheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to budesonide. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to budesonide during concurrent use.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to budesonide. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to budesonide during concurrent use.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to budesonide. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to budesonide during concurrent use.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce these isoenzymes and if given concurrently with bupivacaine may decrease the efficacy of bupivacaine.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce these isoenzymes and if given concurrently with bupivacaine may decrease the efficacy of bupivacaine.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce these isoenzymes and if given concurrently with bupivacaine may decrease the efficacy of bupivacaine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce these isoenzymes and if given concurrently with bupivacaine may decrease the efficacy of bupivacaine.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Close monitoring of the patient is recommended if a CYP3A4 inducer is used with buprenorphine. Inducers of CYP3A4 such as phenobarbital may induce the hepatic metabolism of buprenorphine, which may lead to opiate withdrawal or inadequate pain control. It is likely that all barbiturates exert the same effect as phenobarbital. This interaction is most significant if the enzyme-inducing agent is added after buprenorphine therapy has begun. Buprenorphine doses may need to be increased if any of these agents are added. Conversely, buprenorphine doses may need to be decreased if these drugs are discontinued. Additive CNS depression may be the more important issue initially when barbiturates are given with buprenorphine; the induction of buprenorphine metabolism may take several days. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Close monitoring of the patient is recommended if a CYP3A4 inducer is used with buprenorphine. Inducers of CYP3A4 such as phenobarbital may induce the hepatic metabolism of buprenorphine, which may lead to opiate withdrawal or inadequate pain control. It is likely that all barbiturates exert the same effect as phenobarbital. This interaction is most significant if the enzyme-inducing agent is added after buprenorphine therapy has begun. Buprenorphine doses may need to be increased if any of these agents are added. Conversely, buprenorphine doses may need to be decreased if these drugs are discontinued. Additive CNS depression may be the more important issue initially when barbiturates are given with buprenorphine; the induction of buprenorphine metabolism may take several days. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion may interact with drugs that induce hepatic microsomal isoenzyme function via CYP2B6 such as the barbiturates. While not systematically studied, these drugs may induce the metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure. If bupropion is used concomitantly with a CYP inducer, it may be necessary to increase the dose of bupropion, but the maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded. Advise patients that until they are reasonably certain that the combination does not adversely affect their performance, they should refrain from driving an automobile or operating complex, hazardous machinery.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Bupropion may interact with drugs that induce hepatic microsomal isoenzyme function via CYP2B6 such as the barbiturates. While not systematically studied, these drugs may induce the metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure. If bupropion is used concomitantly with a CYP inducer, it may be necessary to increase the dose of bupropion, but the maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded. Advise patients that until they are reasonably certain that the combination does not adversely affect their performance, they should refrain from driving an automobile or operating complex, hazardous machinery.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced anxiolytic effect of buspirone. Potent inducers of CYP3A4, such as the barbiturates, may increase the rate of buspirone metabolism. If a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage on buspirone, a dose adjustment of buspirone may be necessary to maintain anxiolytic effect. There is also a risk of additive CNS depression (drowsiness) when buspirone is given concomitantly with barbiturates. In a study in healthy volunteers, co-administration of buspirone with a potent CYP3A4 inducer decreased the plasma concentrations (83.7% decrease in Cmax; 89.6% decrease in AUC) and pharmacodynamic effects of buspirone.
Busulfan: (Moderate) Use busulfan and acetaminophen together with caution; concomitant use may result in increased busulfan levels and increased busulfan toxicity. Separating the administration of these drugs may mitigate this interaction; avoid giving acetaminophen within 72 hours prior to or concurrently with busulfan. Busulfan is metabolized in the liver through conjugation with glutathione; acetaminophen decreases glutathione levels in the blood and tissues and may reduce the clearance of busulfan.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates, can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering barbiturates with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Barbiturates are inducers of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Cabozantinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of cabozantinib and barbiturates. If use is necessary, increase the cabozantinib dosage; specific recommendations vary by cabozantinib dosage form. For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg (e.g., 60 mg/day to 80 mg/day; 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day) up to a maximum daily dose of 80 mg. For patients taking cabozantinib capsules, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 40 mg (e.g., 140 mg/day to 180 mg/day or 100 mg/day to 140 mg/day) up to a maximum daily dose of 180 mg. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased cabozantinib overall exposure by 77%.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Calcifediol: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of calcifediol may be necessary during coadministration with barbiturates. Additionally, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, intact PTH, and calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with barbiturates. Barbiturates stimulate microsomal hydroxylation and reduce the half-life of calcifediol. In rare cases, this has caused anticonvulsant-induced rickets and osteomalacia.
Calcitriol: (Moderate) Barbiturates can decrease the activity of vitamin D by increasing its metabolism. In rare cases, this has caused anticonvulsant-induced rickets and osteomalacia. Vitamin D supplementation may be required in patients with inadequate dietary intake of vitamin D who are receiving chronic treatment with barbiturates.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence and reduced cannabidiol efficacy during coadministration with barbiturates. Central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as barbiturates, may potentiate the sedative effects of cannabidiol. Coadministration may also decrease cannabidiol plasma concentrations and reduce its therapeutic effect. Barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and cannabidiol is a CYP3A substrate.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with barbiturates due to decreased capivasertib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the capivasertib overall exposure by 70%.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate hepatic metabolism of carbamazepine due to induction of hepatic microsomal enzyme activity. Carbamazepine serum concentrations should be monitored closely if a barbiturate is added or discontinued during therapy. (Minor) Carbamazepine may potentially accelerate the hepatic metabolism of acetaminophen. In addition, due to enzyme induction, carbamazepine may increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Clinicians should be alert to decreased effect of acetaminophen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary, and closer monitoring of clinical and/or adverse effects is warranted.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as carbinoxamine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Cardiac glycosides: (Moderate) Hepatic enzyme inducing drugs, such as barbiturates, can accelerate the metabolism of digoxin, decreasing its serum concentrations. It is recommended that digoxin concentrations be monitored if used with barbiturates.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additive central nervous system (CNS) depression may also occur. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of tramadol with a barbiturate can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of seizures, serotonin syndrome, and the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and butalbital. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Charcoal: (Minor) Activated charcoal binds many drugs within the gut. Administering charcoal dietary supplements at the same time as a routine acetaminophen dosage would be expected to interfere with the analgesic and antipyretic efficacy of acetaminophen. Charcoal is mostly used in the setting of acetaminophen overdose; however, patients should never try to treat an acetaminophen overdose with charcoal dietary supplements. Advise patients to get immediate medical attention for an acetaminophen overdose.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as dexchlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorambucil: (Minor) Barbiturates appear to increase the hepatic activation of chlorambucil to its active metabolite than to inactive metabolite. Clinicians should be alert for a potential increase in chlorambucil related activity and/or toxicity.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Chloramphenicol inhibits the cytochrome P-450 enzyme system and can affect the hepatic metabolism of phenobarbital. Phenobarbital levels rise modestly. It is also possible that plasma concentrations of chloramphenicol can be reduced by concomitant use of barbiturates, agents that are known to stimulate hepatic microsomal enzymes responsible for chloramphenicol metabolism.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of chlordiazepoxide. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of chlordiazepoxide. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of chlordiazepoxide. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of chloroprocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue chloroprocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Moderate) Prolonged concurrent use of acetaminophen and salicylates is not recommended. Although salicylates are rarely associated with nephrotoxicity, high-dose, chronic administration of salicylates combined other analgesics, including acetaminophen, significantly increases the risk of analgesic nephropathy, renal papillary necrosis, and end-stage renal disease. Additive hepatic toxicity may occur, especially in combined overdose situations. Do not exceed the recommended individual maximum doses when these agents are given concurrently for short-term therapy.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as clemastine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Concomitant of clobazam with other CNS-depressant drugs including barbiturates can potentiate the CNS effects (i.e., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. The primary metabolic pathway of clobazam is CYP3A4, and to a lesser extent, CYP2C19 and CYP2B6. Metabolism of N-desmethylclobazam occurs primarily through CYP2C19. Results of a population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that concurrent use of phenobarbital, a CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inducer, did not significantly alter the kinetics of clobazam or its active metabolite N-desmethylclobazam at steady-state. It should be noted that because clobazam is metabolized by multiple enzyme systems, induction of one pathway may not appreciably increase its clearance.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitoring of clonazepam concentrations or dosage adjustment may be necessary if used concurrently with barbiturates due to decreased clonazepam concentrations. Clonazepam concentration decreases of approximately 38% have been reported when clonazepam is used with strong CYP3A4 inducers. Clonazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may also occur.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of N-desmethyldiazepam, the active metabolite of clorazepate. N-desmethyldiazepam is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducers.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Patients on certain anticonvulsant therapies should receive clozapine with caution. Clozapine may interact with anticonvulsants in several ways; concurrent use of clozapine in patients on antiepileptic medications is not recommended in seizures that are not well controlled. Clozapine lowers the seizure threshold in a dose-dependent manner and thus may induce seizures; dosage adjustments of clozapine should be cautious. CYP1A2, CYP3A4, and CYP2D6 isoenzymes metabolize clozapine; anticonvulsant drugs known to induce one or more of these isoenzymes include barbiturates. Clinicians should monitor for reduced clozapine effectiveness during concurrent use of anticonvulsants that are weak to moderate CYP inducers. Additive sedation may be noted initially with concurrent clozapine and barbiturate use; enzyme induction by barbiturates takes several days to become clinically apparent.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of cobimetinib with butalbital due to decreased cobimetinib efficacy. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate in vitro, and butalbital is a moderate inducer of CYP3A. Based on simulations, cobimetinib exposure would decrease by 73% when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
COMT inhibitors: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Crinecerfont: (Major) Increase the crinecerfont morning and evening doses 2-fold if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use is expected to decrease crinecerfont exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Crinecerfont is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced crinecerfont overall exposure by 62%.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Phenobarbital may induce cyclosporine metabolism, thereby increasing the clearance of cyclosporine. It is likely that other barbiturates would interact similarly with cyclosporine; however no supportive data are available. If phenobarbital is added to an existing cyclosporine regimen, monitor cyclosporine concentrations closely to avoid loss of clinical efficacy until a new steady-state concentration is achieved. Conversely, if phenobarbital is discontinued, cyclosporine concentrations could increase.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with cyproheptadine.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Coadministration of dapsone with acetaminophen may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Advise patients to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention with any signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daraxonrasib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease daraxonrasib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the daraxonrasib dosage to 400 mg once daily. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inducers reduced daraxonrasib overall exposure by 50% to 70%.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and butalbital. Coadministration may decrease daridorexant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased daridorexant overall exposure by over 50%.
Darunavir: (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with barbiturates is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased darunavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; barbiturates as a class are CYP3A4 inducers. Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occurring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital, a known potent CYP3A4 inducer.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with barbiturates is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased darunavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; barbiturates as a class are CYP3A4 inducers. Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occurring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital, a known potent CYP3A4 inducer.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with barbiturates is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased darunavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; barbiturates as a class are CYP3A4 inducers. Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occurring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital, a known potent CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Deflazacort: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of deflazacort and butalbital. Concurrent use may significantly decrease concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in loss of efficacy. Deflazacort is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate inducer of CYP3A4. Administration of deflazacort with multiple doses of rifampin (a strong CYP3A4 inducer) resulted in geometric mean exposures that were approximately 95% lower compared to administration alone.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Deuruxolitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of deuruxolitinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease deuruxolitinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Deuruxolitinib is a CYP3A and CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A and moderate CYP2C9 inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and moderate CYP2C9 inducer reduced deuruxolitinib overall exposure by 78%.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dexamethasone if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary; consider increasing the dose of dexamethasone if clinically appropriate. Dexamethasone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as dexchlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as dexchlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Co-administration of dexmedetomidine with barbiturates is likely to lead to an enhancement of CNS depression.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion may interact with drugs that induce hepatic microsomal isoenzyme function via CYP2B6 such as the barbiturates. While not systematically studied, these drugs may induce the metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure. If bupropion is used concomitantly with a CYP inducer, it may be necessary to increase the dose of bupropion, but the maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded. Advise patients that until they are reasonably certain that the combination does not adversely affect their performance, they should refrain from driving an automobile or operating complex, hazardous machinery.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine is eliminated primarily via hepatic metabolism, primarily by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Administration of other hepatic enzyme inducers, such as barbiturates, can accelerate quinidine elimination and decrease its serum concentrations. Phenobarbital may decrease quinidine half-life and corresponding AUC by about 50 to 60%. Quinidine concentrations should be monitored closely after one of these agents is added. No special precautions appear necessary if these agents are begun several weeks before quinidine is added but quinidine doses may require adjustment if one of these agents is added or discontinued during quinidine therapy.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of diazepam. Diazepam is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 inducers.
Diazoxide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of diazoxide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease diazoxide exposure and efficacy. Diazoxide is a CYP3A and CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A and moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Another strong CYP3A and moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce diazoxide overall exposure by 40% to 70%.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering diclofenac with inducers of CYP2C9, such as barbiturates. When used together, the systemic exposure to diclofenac (a CYP2C9 substrate) may decrease, potentially resulting in impaired efficacy. Higher diclofenac doses may be needed. In addition, phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment after diclofenac initiation.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering diclofenac with inducers of CYP2C9, such as barbiturates. When used together, the systemic exposure to diclofenac (a CYP2C9 substrate) may decrease, potentially resulting in impaired efficacy. Higher diclofenac doses may be needed. In addition, phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment after diclofenac initiation.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Acetaminophen plasma concentrations can increase by approximately 50% following administration of diflunisal. Acetaminophen has no effect on diflunisal concentrations. Acetaminophen in high doses has been associated with severe hepatotoxic reactions; therefore, caution should be exercised when using these agents concomitantly.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Hepatic enzyme inducing drugs, such as barbiturates, can accelerate the metabolism of digoxin, decreasing its serum concentrations. It is recommended that digoxin concentrations be monitored if used with barbiturates.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Diltiazem is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of diltiazem with known CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, may significantly decrease the bioavailability of diltiazem. When possible, avoid coadministration of these drugs and consider alternative therapy. When an alternative therapy is not possible, patients should be monitored for the desired cardiovascular effects on heart rate, chest pain, or blood pressure.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with dimenhydrinate.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with barbiturates can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Hepatic microsomal enzyme-inducing agents, such as barbiturates, have the potential to accelerate the hepatic metabolism of disopyramide, a CYP3A4 substrate. Serum disopyramide concentrations should be monitored closely if hepatic enzyme inducers are either added or discontinued during disopyramide therapy.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering barbiturates with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Barbiturates are inducers of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Donepezil: (Moderate) The elimination of donepezil may be increased by concurrent administration of moderate to strong inducers of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as barbiturates (including primidone). The clinical effect of this interaction on the efficacy of donepezil has not been determined. Observe patients for evidence of reduced donepezil efficacy if these agents are prescribed concurrently.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) The elimination of donepezil may be increased by concurrent administration of moderate to strong inducers of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as barbiturates (including primidone). The clinical effect of this interaction on the efficacy of donepezil has not been determined. Observe patients for evidence of reduced donepezil efficacy if these agents are prescribed concurrently.
Doravirine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Although these interactions have not been specifically studied, hepatic enzyme inducers, such as barbiturates, may affect the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol and may necessitate dosage adjustments of doxercalciferol.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy. Avoid coadministration of barbiturates and doxorubicin if possible. If not possible, monitor doxorubicin closely for efficacy.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy. Avoid coadministration of barbiturates and doxorubicin if possible. If not possible, monitor doxorubicin closely for efficacy.
Doxycycline: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of doxycycline if coadministered with barbiturates. Barbiturates decrease the half-life of doxycycline, resulting in reduced systemic exposure.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with barbiturates is necessary, and monitor for an increase in barbiturate-related adverse reactions and a decrease in the efficacy of dronabinol. Additive dizziness, confusion, somnolence, and other CNS effects may also occur. Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; barbiturates are moderate or strong (phenobarbital) inducers of CYP3A4; additionally phenobarbital is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. Concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of dronabinol. Decreased clearance of barbiturates has also been reported with dronabinol use, possibly by competitive inhibition of metabolism. Published data show an increase in the elimination half-life of pentobarbital by 4 hours when concomitantly dosed with dronabinol.
Dronedarone: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
droPERidol: (Major) Central nervous system depressants, such as barbiturates, have additive or potentiating effects with droperidol. Following administration of droperidol, lower doses of the other CNS depressant should be used.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of duvelisib with butalbital. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of duvelisib, which may reduce the efficacy of duvelisib. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of duvelisib on day 12 of coadministration from 25 mg PO twice daily to 40 mg PO twice daily; or from 15 mg PO twice daily to 25 mg PO twice daily. When butalbital has been discontinued for at least 14 days, resume duvelisib at the dose taken prior to initiating treatment with butalbital. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of duvelisib with another moderate CYP3A inducer for 12 days decreased duvelisib exposure by 35%.
Efavirenz: (Major) Complex interactions may occur when barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital) are administered to patients receiving treatment for HIV infection; if treating seizure disorder, a different anticonvulsant should be used whenever possible. If a barbiturate must be used in a patient being treated for HIV, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy and seizure control; appropriate dose adjustments to the barbiturate or the antiretroviral medications are unknown. The combination regimens used to treat HIV often include substrates, inducers, and inhibitors of several CYP isoenzymes. Efavirenz is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Phenobarbital is an inducer of CYP3A4, and a substrate and inducer of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Use caution if these drugs are to be coadministered, with increased monitoring of both efavirenz and barbiturate concentrations. (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Complex interactions may occur when barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital) are administered to patients receiving treatment for HIV infection; if treating seizure disorder, a different anticonvulsant should be used whenever possible. If a barbiturate must be used in a patient being treated for HIV, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy and seizure control; appropriate dose adjustments to the barbiturate or the antiretroviral medications are unknown. The combination regimens used to treat HIV often include substrates, inducers, and inhibitors of several CYP isoenzymes. Efavirenz is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Phenobarbital is an inducer of CYP3A4, and a substrate and inducer of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Use caution if these drugs are to be coadministered, with increased monitoring of both efavirenz and barbiturate concentrations. (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Complex interactions may occur when barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital) are administered to patients receiving treatment for HIV infection; if treating seizure disorder, a different anticonvulsant should be used whenever possible. If a barbiturate must be used in a patient being treated for HIV, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy and seizure control; appropriate dose adjustments to the barbiturate or the antiretroviral medications are unknown. The combination regimens used to treat HIV often include substrates, inducers, and inhibitors of several CYP isoenzymes. Efavirenz is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Phenobarbital is an inducer of CYP3A4, and a substrate and inducer of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Use caution if these drugs are to be coadministered, with increased monitoring of both efavirenz and barbiturate concentrations. (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of elacestrant and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased elacestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elacestrant overall exposure by 86%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of barbiturates with elbasvir; grazoprevir is contraindicated. Barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, while both elbasvir and grazoprevir are substrates of CYP3A. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of both elbasvir and grazoprevir, and may result in decreased virologic response.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is a UDP-glucuronyltransferase inhibitor. Acetaminophen is a substrate of UDP-glucuronyltransferases. The significance or effect of this interaction is not known; however, elevated concentrations of acetaminophen are possible. Monitor patients for adverse reactions if these drugs are coadministered. (Moderate) Eltrombopag is metabolized by CYP1A2. The significance of administering inducers of CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, on the systemic exposure of eltrombopag has not been established. Monitor patients for a decrease in the efficacy of eltrombopag if these drugs are coadministered.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and barbiturates if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and barbiturates if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering barbiturates with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Barbiturates are inducers of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering barbiturates with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Barbiturates are inducers of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of encorafenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease encorafenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Entacapone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with butalbital due to decreased entrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Entrectinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to reduce the entrectinib AUC by 56%.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Erlotinib: (Moderate) There may be a risk of reduced erlotinib efficacy when coadministered with butalbital; however, the risk has not been clearly defined. If coadministration is necessary, consider increasing the erlotinib dose by 50 mg increments at 2-week intervals as tolerated, to a maximum of 450 mg. Erlotinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 and 1A2 inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of erlotinib.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Escitalopram is metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates can induce the metabolism of various CYP 450 isoenzymes, including those involved in escitalopram metabolism. Although no clinical data are available to support a clinically significant interaction, escitalopram may need to be administered in higher doses in patients chronically taking barbiturates.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the metabolism of eslicarbazepine resulting in decreased plasma concentrations of and potentially reduced efficacy of eslicarbazepine. An increased dose of eslicarbazepine may be necessary if these drugs are coadministered.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of esomeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of esomeprazole. Esomeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Eszopiclone: (Major) Barbiturates are potent inducers of CYP3A4 may increase the rate of eszopiclone metabolism. Additive CNS depression may also occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with eszopiclone. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of eszopiclone and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression. (Major) The risk of developing hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen appears to be increased in patients who regularly consume alcohol. Patients who drink more than 3 alcohol-containing drinks a day and take acetaminophen are at increased risk of developing hepatotoxicity. Acute or chronic alcohol use increases acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by inducing CYP2E1 leading to increased formation of the hepatotoxic metabolite of acetaminophen. Also, chronic alcohol use can deplete liver glutathione stores. Administration of acetaminophen should be limited or avoided altogether in patients with alcoholism or patients who consume alcohol regularly.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Etonogestrel: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with butalbital is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be increased. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with CYP3A4 inducers may increase the metabolism of everolimus and decrease everolimus blood concentrations.
Exenatide: (Minor) Although an interaction is possible, these drugs may be used together. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least 1 hour prior to an exenatide injection. When 1,000 mg acetaminophen elixir was given with 10 mcg exenatide (at 0 hours) and at 1, 2 and 4 hours after exenatide injection, acetaminophen AUCs were decreased by 21%, 23%, 24%, and 14%, respectively; Cmax was decreased by 37%, 56%, 54%, and 41%, respectively. Additionally, acetaminophen Tmax was delayed from 0.6 hours in the control period to 0.9, 4.2, 3.3, and 1.6 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before exenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying from exenatide use) and the clinical impact has not been assessed.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Barbiturates are significant hepatic CYP3A4 inducers. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when barbiturates are co-administered with simvastatin, which is metabolized by CYP3A4.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib with barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease fedratinib exposure which may result in decreased therapeutic response. Fedratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration of fedratinib with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the overall exposure of fedratinib by 81%.
Felodipine: (Major) Barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital, primidone) may significantly reduce systemic exposure of felodipine; consider alternative therapy. If coadministration is necessary, monitor the patient closely for desired cardiovascular effects on heart rate, blood pressure, or chest pain. Felodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate, and these anticonvulsants are potent CYP3A4 inducers. In a pharmacokinetic study, felodipine's Cmax was considerably lower in epileptic patients on long-term anticonvulsant therapy than in healthy volunteers. In these patients, the mean AUC was reduced approximately 6% of that observed in healthy adults.
Fenfluramine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fenfluramine and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased fenfluramine plasma concentrations, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased efficacy and consider increasing fenfluramine dose as needed. If barbiturates are discontinued during fenfluramine maintenance treatment, consider gradual reduction in the fenfluramine dosage to the dose administered prior to barbiturate initiation. Fenfluramine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Fenoprofen: (Minor) Phenobarbital and possibly other barbiturates can decrease the plasma concentrations and half-life of fenoprofen. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, but dosage adjustments of fenoprofen may be necessary with concurrent administration of phenobarbital or following initiation or withdrawal of the drug.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of fentanyl with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of fentanyl with a barbiturate may decrease fentanyl plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Finerenone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of finerenone and butalbital due to the risk for decreased finerenone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased overall exposure to finerenone by 80%.
Flibanserin: (Major) The concomitant use of flibanserin with CYP3A4 inducers significantly decreases flibanserin exposure compared to the use of flibanserin alone. Therefore, concurrent use of flibanserin and phenobarbital or other barbiturates, which are strong CYP3A4 inducers, is not recommended.
Fluconazole: (Minor) Barbiturates induce hepatic CYP enzymes including 3A4, 2C19 and 2C9 and may reduce effective serum concentrations of fluconazole. Be alert for lack of efficacy of fluconazole in concurrent use.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to fluticasone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to fluticasone during concurrent use.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to fluticasone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to fluticasone during concurrent use.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to fluticasone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to fluticasone during concurrent use.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to fluticasone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to fluticasone during concurrent use.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use during barbiturate treatment due to the risk for additive CNS depression and other adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also decrease the concentration of some cannabinoids and alter their effects. The cannabinoids delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of a cannabinoid product containing THC and CBD at an approximate 1:1 ratio with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased THC, 11-OH-THC, and CBD peak exposures by 36%, 87%, and 52% respectively.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased fosamprenavir efficacy if coadministered with barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of fosamprenavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the fosamprenavir overall exposure by 82%.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Barbiturates can stimulate the hydroxylating enzyme that metabolizes phenytoin or, conversely, may inhibit phenytoin (or fosphenytoin) metabolism. In general, therapeutic doses of phenobarbital induce the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin, producing lower phenytoin serum concentrations. Large doses of phenobarbital, however, tend to increase phenytoin serum concentrations due to competition for hepatic pathways. Thus, phenytoin serum concentrations can increase, decrease, or not change during concomitant therapy with barbiturates. Conversely, phenytoin can increase serum concentrations of the barbiturate, however this has not been as well studied. Similar interactions may occur with ethotoin, although specific data are lacking. (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Fruquintinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fruquintinib with barbiturates due to decreased fruquintinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Fruquintinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inducer decreased fruquintinib exposure by 65%.
Futibatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of futibatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease futibatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Futibatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced futibatinib overall exposure by 64%.
Gabapentin: (Major) Concomitant use of barbiturates with gabapentin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
Ganaxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ganaxolone and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ganaxolone efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing ganaxolone dose without exceeding the maximum daily dose. Ganaxolone is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ganaxolone overall exposure by 68%.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Gepirone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepotidacin and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepotidacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepotidacin overall exposure by 52%.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and butalbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after butalbital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Glimepiride: (Minor) Barbiturates may induce the CYP2C9 metabolism of glimepiride. Blood glucose concentrations should be monitored and possible dose adjustments of glimepiride may need to be made.
Griseofulvin: (Minor) Barbiturates can impair the oral absorption of griseofulvin, resulting in decreased serum concentrations and, potentially, decreased antifungal efficacy. The clinical significance of this interaction is uncertain, but the manufacturer recommends that these drugs not be co-administered.
guanFACINE: (Major) Monitor patients for guanfacine efficacy and for excess sedation during butalbital coadministration. Guanfacine plasma concentrations can be reduced by butalbital, by induction of CYP3A4 metabolism. Immediate-release guanfacine may require more frequent dosing to achieve or maintain desired hypotensive response; if it is discontinued, carefully taper the dose to prevent rebound hypertension. The extended-release guanfacine dose for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) may need to be doubled, per FDA-approved labeling; any dose change should occur over 1 to 2 weeks (e.g., dose increase when adding, or decrease when discontinuing, an enzyme inducer). Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. Barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital, primidone) are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Guanfacine plasma concentrations and elimination half-life were significantly reduced with coadministration of an enzyme inducer (e.g., phenobarbital, primidone, phenytoin, fosphenytoin) in two patients with renal impairment. Additionally, guanfacine has been associated with sedative effects and can potentiate the actions of CNS depressants, including barbiturates.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Caution should be exercised with simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Hemin: (Major) Hemin works by inhibiting the enzyme (delta)-aminolevulinic acid synthetase. Drugs which increase the activity of this enzyme, such as barbiturates should not be used with hemin.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Barbiturates can stimulate the hydroxylating enzyme that metabolizes phenytoin or, conversely, may inhibit phenytoin (or fosphenytoin) metabolism. In general, therapeutic doses of phenobarbital induce the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin, producing lower phenytoin serum concentrations. Large doses of phenobarbital, however, tend to increase phenytoin serum concentrations due to competition for hepatic pathways. Thus, phenytoin serum concentrations can increase, decrease, or not change during concomitant therapy with barbiturates. Conversely, phenytoin can increase serum concentrations of the barbiturate, however this has not been as well studied. Similar interactions may occur with ethotoin, although specific data are lacking. (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased corticosteroid efficacy if hydrocortisone is used with barbiturates; a hydrocortisone dosage increase may be necessary. Concurrent use may decrease hydrocortisone exposure. Hydrocortisone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydromorphone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Because hydroxyzine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including barbiturates.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of ibrexafungerp with barbiturates. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease ibrexafungerp exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for increased ifosfamide-related toxicities (e.g., neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity) if coadministration with butalbital is necessary; consider adjusting the dose of ifosfamide as clinically appropriate. Ifosfamide is metabolized to its active alkylating metabolites by CYP3A4; butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may increase the formation of the neurotoxic/nephrotoxic ifosfamide metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. In theory, the use of barbiturates and iloperidone may also result in an increase in iloperidone elimination as a result of the CYP inducing effects of barbiturates.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of imatinib and barbiturates if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of imatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of imatinib by at least 50%, carefully monitoring clinical response; imatinib doses up to 1,200 mg per day (600 mg twice daily) have been given to patients receiving concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers. Imatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer increased imatinib clearance by 3.8-fold, which significantly decreased the mean Cmax and AUC of imatinib. (Major) Imatinib, STI-571 may affect the metabolism of acetaminophen. In vitro, imatinib was found to inhibit acetaminophen O-glucuronidation at therapeutic levels. Therefore, systemic exposure to acetaminophen is expected to be increased with coadministration of imatinib. Chronic acetaminophen therapy should be avoided in patients receiving imatinib.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with acetaminophen may result in increased serum concentrations of acetaminophen. Acetaminophen is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Major) The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. This may enhance drowsiness or dizziness. Barbiturates should generally be given at a reduced dose with an MAOI.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Agents which induce the hepatic isoenzyme CYP2E1, such as isoniazid, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolites. The combination of isoniazid and acetaminophen has caused severe hepatotoxicity in at least one patient; studies in rats have demonstrated that pre-treatment with isoniazid potentiates acetaminophen hepatotoxicity.
Isradipine: (Major) Because isradipine is a substrate of CYP3A4, the concomitant use of drugs that strongly induce CYP3A4, such as barbiturates, may cause a reduction in the bioavailability and thus decreased therapeutic effect of isradipine. Consider alternative therapy; if co-use is necessary, patients should be monitored for potential loss of therapeutic effect when hepatic enzyme inducers are added to isradipine therapy.
Itraconazole: (Major) Use of barbiturates is not recommended for 2 weeks before or during itraconazole therapy. Barbiturates induce hepatic CYP enzymes including 3A4, 2C19 and 2C9 and may reduce effective serum concentrations of itraconazole. Monitor for breakthrough fungal infections.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivabradine and barbiturates including primidone. Ivabradine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration may decrease the plasma concentrations of ivabradine resulting in the potential for treatment failure.
Ixabepilone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for possible loss of lamotrigine efficacy and seizure activity during coadministration with acetaminophen. Acetaminophen may induce glucuronidation pathways involved in lamotrigine metabolism. During a study among 12 healthy volunteers, concomitant administration of acetaminophen 4 g/day with lamotrigine at steady-state increased the formation clearance of lamotrigine glucuronide conjugates by 45%, decreased lamotrigine AUC by 20%, and reduced lamotrigine trough concentrations by 25%.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lansoprazole if concomitant use of lansoprazole and barbiturates is necessary. Lansoprazole is metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. Drugs known to induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 may lead to decreased lansoprazole plasma concentrations.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lansoprazole if concomitant use of lansoprazole and barbiturates is necessary. Lansoprazole is metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. Drugs known to induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 may lead to decreased lansoprazole plasma concentrations.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lazertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with butalbital unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may decrease lefamulin exposure and efficacy. Lefamulin is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and butalbital as concurrent use may decrease lemborexant exposure which may reduce efficacy. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for reduced lenacapavir exposure, which may lead to loss of therapeutic efficacy and development of resistance. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with barbiturates is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day barbiturates are initiated, which should be at least 2 days after lenacapavir initiation, a supplemental dose of 927 mg subcutaneously and 600 mg orally should be given (Step 1). The following day, an additional oral dose of 600 mg should be administered (Step 2). If the barbiturate is continued for longer than 6 months, this 2-step supplemental dosing regimen must be repeated every 6 months. After discontinuation of barbiturates, the standard 6-month injection schedule for lenacapavir should be resumed. Recommendations are not available for those already on barbiturates at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 84%.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease leniolisib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced leniolisib overall exposure by 78%.
Leucovorin: (Minor) Limited data suggest that leucovorin and levoleucovorin may interfere with the activity of anticonvulsants such as barbiturates. Folic acid can decrease serum concentrations of anticonvulsants in children. Leucovorin shares metabolic pathways with folic acid. Clinicians should consider careful monitoring of patients.
Levamlodipine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
LEVOleucovorin: (Minor) Limited data suggest that leucovorin and levoleucovorin may interfere with the activity of anticonvulsants such as barbiturates. Folic acid can decrease serum concentrations of anticonvulsants in children. Leucovorin shares metabolic pathways with folic acid. Clinicians should consider careful monitoring of patients.
Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of levorphanol with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial dose of levorphanol by approximately 50% or more. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Levothyroxine: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and barbiturates if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and barbiturates if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Liothyronine: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Lithium: (Moderate) Because lithium has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills, caution is advisable during concurrent use of other medications with centrally-acting effects including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and barbiturates. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known. The use of barbiturates parenterally may cause vasodilation and an additive risk for hypotension and may lead to bradycardia and syncope; in these patients, careful monitoring of blood pressure should occur.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and butalbital is contraindicated; concurrent use may decrease lonafarnib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lopinavir; ritonavir and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, do not use once daily dosing of lopinavir; ritonavir. Concomitant use may decrease lopinavir plasma concentrations, resulting in reduced efficacy. Lopinavir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease the exposure of both drugs, resulting in reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased virologic response and decreased efficacy of the barbiturate. A dose increase of the barbiturate may be necessary. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and inducer and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur with concurrent use.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and butalbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Barbiturates are significant hepatic CYP3A4 inducers. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when barbiturates are co-administered with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolized by CYP3A4 including lovastatin.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Loxapine can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates. Caution should be exercised with simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and butalbital as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of lumateperone with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased lumateperone overall exposure by greater than 30-fold.
Lurasidone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of lurasidone with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, is contraindicated. Lurasidone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. Decreased blood concentrations of lurasidone are expected when the drug is co-administered with strong inducers of CYP3A4.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lurbinectedin and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased lurbinectedin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Magnesium Salts: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Mannitol: (Minor) Mannitol promotes the urinary excretion of barbiturates, and it may be used as an adjunct in patients with barbiturate toxicity.
Mavacamten: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Mebendazole: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of mebendazole if given concomitantly. This effect can cause decreased levels of plasma mebendazole but is probably important only in the treatment of extraintestinal infections, such as hydatid cyst disease, and not in the treatment of intestinal helminths.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with meclizine.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) The barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and may increase the metabolism of mefloquine if coadministered. Concomitant administration can reduce the clinical efficacy of mefloquine, increasing the risk of Plasmodium falciparum resistance during treatment of malaria. Coadministration of mefloquine and barbiturates that are used as anticonvulsants may also result in lower than expected anticonvulsant concentrations and loss of seizure control. Monitoring of the anticonvulsant serum concentration, if the drug is monitored via therapeutic drug monitoring, is recommended. Mefloquine may cause CNS side effects that may cause seizures or alter moods or behaviors.
Melatonin: (Major) Use caution when combining melatonin with other traditional sedatives and hypnotics, including the sedative barbiturates. Use of more than one agent for hypnotic purposes may increase the risk for over-sedation, CNS effects, or sleep-related behaviors. If a barbiturate is taken for seizure control, watch for changes in anticonvulsant activity. Be alert for unusual changes in moods or behaviors. Patients reporting unusual sleep-related behaviors likely should discontinue melatonin use. Additionally, melatonin exposure and efficacy may be reduced when combined with barbiturates such as phenobarbital, as barbiturates induce many CYP450 isoenzymes, including CYP1A2, the primary metabolic pathway for melatonin.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of meperidine with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of meperidine with a barbiturate may decrease meperidine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; meperidine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mepivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue mepivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Meprobamate: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of methadone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of methadone with a barbiturate may decrease methadone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates are inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, isoenzymes partially responsible for the metabolism of methadone.
methazolAMIDE: (Minor) Methazolamide can induce osteomalacia in patients treated chronically with barbiturates. Potential mechanisms for this interaction include a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor induced increase in the urinary excretion of calcium and an increase in barbiturate effects resulting from metabolic acidosis. Methazolamide can also increase the rate of excretion of weakly acidic drugs, such as barbiturates.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Methohexital: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Methsuximide: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the hepatic metabolism of succinimides. This may lead to a decrease in succinimide plasma concentration and a reduction in half-life.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to methylprednisolone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; methylprednisolone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to methylprednisolone during concurrent use.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
metyraPONE: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with barbiturates can result in additive sedative effects.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) While other hepatic enzyme inducers have been shown to accelerate the metabolism of mexiletine, no data are available regarding the effects of barbiturates on mexiletine. An interaction between barbiturates and mexiletine, however, may be possible.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of midazolam. Midazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of mirtazapine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Modafinil: (Major) It is not clear how modafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Modafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased modafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of modafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining modafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if modafinil can affect seizure control.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Major) The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. This may enhance drowsiness or dizziness. Barbiturates should generally be given at a reduced dose with an MAOI.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of morphine with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. For extended-release morphine tablets (MS Contin and Morphabond), start with 15 mg every 12 hours. Morphine; naltrexone should be initiated at 1/3 to 1/2 the recommended starting dosage. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with nalbuphine. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of nalbuphine and any barbiturate. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with butalbital is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and barbiturates as use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A and P-gp inducers.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of esomeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of esomeprazole. Esomeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Coadministration with phenobarbital and, potentially, other barbiturates may increase the metabolism of nelfinavir and lead to decreased nelfinavir concentrations resulting in reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and development of viral resistance. If nelfinavir and barbiturates are used together, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy.
Nerandomilast: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nerandomilast and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease nerandomilast exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased nerandomilast overall exposure by 51%.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of butalbital with neratinib due to decreased efficacy of neratinib. Neratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Simulations using physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models suggest that another moderate CYP3A4 inducer may decrease neratinib exposure by 52%.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for decreased efficacy of nevirapine if coadministered with barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of nevirapine leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Concomitant use may also decrease the barbiturate concentration. Monitor concentrations closely during coadministration of nevirapine; dose adjustments may be needed. Nevirapine is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased nevirapine exposure by greater than 50%.
NiCARdipine: (Major) Patients should be monitored for loss of antihypertensive effect if CYP3A4 enzyme inducers like the barbiturates are added to nicardipine therapy. Rifampin is a potent hepatic enzyme inducer and has been shown to exert a substantial reduction of the oral bioavailability of some calcium channel blockers. This interaction should be considered with other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors including the barbiturates.
NIFEdipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nifedipine with barbiturates and consider alternative therapy if possible. If coadministration is necessary, monitor the patient closely for desired cardiovascular effects on heart rate, blood pressure, or chest pain. The FDA-approved labeling for some nifedipine products contraindicates coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers, while other manufacturers classify the recommendation as a warning. Nifedipine is a CYP3A4 substrate, and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration of nifedipine with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the AUC and Cmax of nifedipine by approximately 70%.
niMODipine: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Nintedanib: (Major) Avoid the use of barbiturates with nintedanib, as these drugs are expected to decrease the exposure of nintedanib and compromise its efficacy. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers and some barbiturates, such as phenobarbital, also induce P-glycoprotein (P-gp). In drug interaction studies, administration of a dual P-gp and CYP3A4 inducer with nintedanib decreased the AUC of nintedanib by 50%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir is contraindicated for use within 2 weeks of administering barbiturates; consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may decrease nirmatrelvir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. The risk for reduced efficacy may persist following barbiturate discontinuation. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease the exposure of both drugs, resulting in reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased virologic response and decreased efficacy of the barbiturate. A dose increase of the barbiturate may be necessary. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and inducer and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease nirogacestat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce nirogacestat overall exposure by 85%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Coadministration of nisoldipine with CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates should be avoided and alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer with nisoldipine in epileptic patients lowered the nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels. Barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital, primidone) may also decrease the oral bioavailability of nisoldipine via increased hepatic drug clearance.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norgestrel: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine is metabolized by the CYP1A2 hepatic microsomal isoenzyme, and inducers of this enzyme such as barbiturates, may increase olanzapine clearance. The clinical effect of this interaction is thought to be minimal; however, the clinician should be alert for reduced olanzapine effect if the drugs are coadministered. Additive effects are possible when olanzapine is combined with other drugs which cause respiratory depression and/or CNS depression. Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine is metabolized by the CYP1A2 hepatic microsomal isoenzyme, and inducers of this enzyme such as barbiturates, may increase olanzapine clearance. The clinical effect of this interaction is thought to be minimal; however, the clinician should be alert for reduced olanzapine effect if the drugs are coadministered. Additive effects are possible when olanzapine is combined with other drugs which cause respiratory depression and/or CNS depression. Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of samidorphan and barbiturates; decreased samidorphan exposure and loss of efficacy may occur. Samidorphan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer reduced samidorphan exposure by 73%. (Moderate) Olanzapine is metabolized by the CYP1A2 hepatic microsomal isoenzyme, and inducers of this enzyme such as barbiturates, may increase olanzapine clearance. The clinical effect of this interaction is thought to be minimal; however, the clinician should be alert for reduced olanzapine effect if the drugs are coadministered. Additive effects are possible when olanzapine is combined with other drugs which cause respiratory depression and/or CNS depression. Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with butalbital due to the risk of decreasing the efficacy of olaparib. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer; concomitant use may decrease olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the olaparib Cmax by 31% and the AUC by 60%.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with butalbital may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with butalbital to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of olutasidenib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased olutasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Olutasidenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced olutasidenib exposure by approximately 80%.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Ondansetron: (Minor) Ondansetron elimination may be affected by cytochrome P-450 inducers. In a pharmacokinetic study of 16 patients with epilepsy who were maintained chronically on CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., barbiturates) a reduction in ondansetron AUC, Cmax, and half-life was observed, resulting in a significant increase in ondansetron clearance. However, these changes in ondansetron exposure are not thought to be clinically relevant; no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended when CYP450 inducers are used concurrently.
Opicapone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Orforglipron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of orforglipron and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease orforglipron exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Orforglipron is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced orforglipron overall exposure by 82%.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Oveporexton: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oveporexton and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease oveporexton exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced oveporexton overall exposure by 81%.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur with concurrent use.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur when oxybutynin is used concomitantly with other CNS-depressant drugs, including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. In addition, because oxybutynin is metabolized by CYP3A4, administration with drugs that induce CYP3A4 (such as barbiturates) may reduce the serum concentration and effects of oxybutynin. Patients receiving these drugs concomitantly should be monitored for reduced efficacy.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may decrease oxycodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of oxymorphone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxymorphone dosage by 1/3 to 1/2. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
PACLitaxel: (Minor) Paclitaxel is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 2C8 and 3A4. Potential interactions may occur in vivo with any agent that induces CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 isoenzymes including barbiturates.
Pacritinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid using a strong inducer of CYP3A4 if possible during the 1-month injectable dosing interval of Invega Sustenna or the 3-month injectable dosing interval of Invega Trinza. If use of a strong CYP3A4 inducer such as a barbiturate is required in patients receiving injectable paliperidone, consider management with oral paliperidone. Paliperidone is a P-gp substrate, with minor contributions in metabolism by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. A dosage increase of oral paliperidone may be required during coadministration of a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp. However, concurrent use of oral paliperidone with a strong CYP3A4 inducer alone may not be clinically relevant since this isoenzyme contributes to only a small fraction of total body clearance of the drug. It should be noted that clinically significant barbiturate enzyme-induction occurs after several days and may not be clinically significant with short-term use of barbiturates.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease palovarotene exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced palovarotene overall exposure by 11%.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in paltusotine efficacy during concomitant use of paltusotine and barbiturates; increase the paltusotine dosage as appropriate based on response. When increasing the paltusotine dosage, do not exceed 3x the prior dose or 120 mg daily, whichever is less. Concomitant use may decrease paltusotine exposure. Paltusotine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced paltusotine overall exposure by 70%.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of papaverine with potent CNS depressants such as barbiturates could lead to enhanced sedation.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may induce various hepatic CYP450 isoenzymes, including those responsible for the metabolism of paroxetine. Clinicians should be aware of the potential for reduced SSRI efficacy with concurrent administration of a barbiturate, especially in chronic use.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased pemigatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease pemigatinib exposure by more than 50%.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pentazocine with other CNS depressants can potentiate respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation. Pentazocine should be used cautiously in any patient receiving these agents, which may include barbiturates.
PENTobarbital: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Phenelzine: (Major) The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. This may enhance drowsiness or dizziness. Barbiturates should generally be given at a reduced dose with an MAOI.
PHENobarbital: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Barbiturates can stimulate the hydroxylating enzyme that metabolizes phenytoin or, conversely, may inhibit phenytoin (or fosphenytoin) metabolism. In general, therapeutic doses of phenobarbital induce the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin, producing lower phenytoin serum concentrations. Large doses of phenobarbital, however, tend to increase phenytoin serum concentrations due to competition for hepatic pathways. Thus, phenytoin serum concentrations can increase, decrease, or not change during concomitant therapy with barbiturates. Conversely, phenytoin can increase serum concentrations of the barbiturate, however this has not been as well studied. Similar interactions may occur with ethotoin, although specific data are lacking. (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Minor) Barbiturates may induce the CYP2C9 metabolism of glimepiride. Blood glucose concentrations should be monitored and possible dose adjustments of glimepiride may need to be made.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of pirtobrutinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased pirtobrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 71%.
Pitolisant: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pomalidomide: (Moderate) Use pomalidomide and barbiturates together with caution; decreased pomalidomide exposure may occur resulting in reduced pomalidomide effectiveness. Pomalidomide is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are CYP1A2 inducers.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and acetaminophen should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for acetaminophen-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of acetaminophen. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for acetaminophen-related adverse events.
Pralidoxime: (Major) The action of barbiturates is potentiated by the acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, which should be considered when using pralidoxime. Barbiturates should be used with caution to treat convulsions produced by acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.
Pramipexole: (Major) The use of barbiturates in combination with pramipexole may increase the risk of clinically significant sedation via a pharmacodynamic interaction.
Pramlintide: (Minor) Because pramlintide has the potential to delay the absorption of concomitantly administered medications, medications should be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after pramlintide injection when the rapid onset of a concomitantly administered oral medication is a critical determinant of effectiveness (i.e., analgesics).
Praziquantel: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of praziquantel and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk of decreased praziquantel exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Praziquantel is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. In a crossover study with a 2-week washout period, administration of praziquantel followed by another strong CYP3A inducer resulted in undetectable plasma concentrations of praziquantel in 7 out of 10 subjects. When praziquantel was administered 2 weeks after discontinuation of the strong inducer, the mean praziquantel AUC was 23% lower than when praziquantel was given alone.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to prednisolone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; prednisolone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to prednisolone during concurrent use.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to prednisone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; prednisone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to prednisone during concurrent use.
Pregabalin: (Major) Concomitant use of barbiturates with pregabalin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Primidone: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Procarbazine: (Moderate) Use procarbazine and barbiturates together with caution; additive CNS depression may occur.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Progesterone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Progestins: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Propofol: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with triprolidine.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of quazepam. Quazepam is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 inducers.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Coadministration of barbiturates, potent CYP3A4 inducers, with quetiapine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may result in decreased exposure to quetiapine. The dose of quetiapine should be increased by up to 5-fold when combined with chronic administration (7 to 14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer. Adjust the dose based on patient response and tolerability. When the potent CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the quetiapine dose should be reduced to the original dose within 1 to 2 weeks. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of quetiapine; coadministration of quetiapine with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine is eliminated primarily via hepatic metabolism, primarily by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Administration of other hepatic enzyme inducers, such as barbiturates, can accelerate quinidine elimination and decrease its serum concentrations. Phenobarbital may decrease quinidine half-life and corresponding AUC by about 50 to 60%. Quinidine concentrations should be monitored closely after one of these agents is added. No special precautions appear necessary if these agents are begun several weeks before quinidine is added but quinidine doses may require adjustment if one of these agents is added or discontinued during quinidine therapy.
quiNINE: (Major) If concomitant administration of barbiturates and quinine cannot be avoided, frequently monitor the barbiturate concentration. Also, monitor closely for increased barbiturate-associated adverse events such as excessive drowsiness, difficulty breathing, or confusion. A single quinine 600 mg dose increased the mean plasma Cmax and AUC of a barbiturate by 53% and 81%, respectively, in 8 healthy subjects. In addition, barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers and may decrease plasma quinine concentrations.
Quizartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of rabeprazole with barbiturates may result in decreased rabeprazole plasma concentrations; monitor for signs and symptoms of reduced rabeprazole efficacy. Barbiturates induce CYP2C19 and rabeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate.
Ramelteon: (Major) Barbiturates can induce CYP1A2, the major metabolic pathway for ramelteon, and may eventually accelerate the clearance (and, thus, reduce the sedative properties) of ramelteon. Administration of multiple doses of a potent CYP inducer (rifampin) resulted in a mean decrease of approximately 80% in total exposure to ramelteon and its metabolite M-II. Additive CNS depression may also occur. The induction of ramelteon metabolism would likely require several days of barbiturate administration while additive drowsiness would appear immediately. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of any CNS-depressant drugs and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary. If the medications must be used together, monitor for the effectiveness of ramelteon. Hypnotic barbiturates are best avoided during ramelteon therapy; the manufacturer warns against using other medications for sleep concurrently with ramelteon.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) Ranolazine is contraindicated in patients receiving drugs known to be CYP3A inducers including barbiturates. Induction of CYP3A metabolism could lead to decreased ranolazine plasma concentrations and decreased efficacy.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of MAOIs can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including buprenorphine, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Use these drugs cautiously with MAOIs; warn patients to not drive or perform other hazardous activities until they know how a particular drug combination affects them. In some cases, the dosages of the CNS depressants may need to be reduced.
Red Yeast Rice: (Moderate) Since certain red yeast rice products (i.e., pre-2005 Cholestin formulations) contain lovastatin, clinicians should use red yeast rice cautiously in combination with drugs known to interact with lovastatin. CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, can theoretically reduce the effectiveness of HMG-CoA reductase activity via induction of CYP3A4 metabolism.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relacorilant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease relacorilant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Relacorilant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of remifentanil with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Repaglinide: (Major) Coadministration of barbiturates and repaglinide may decrease the serum concentration of repaglinide; if coadministration is necessary, a dose increase of repaglinide may be necessary and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers and repaglinide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for the possibility of reduced effectiveness of repaglinide and possible symptoms indicating hyperglycemia.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Revumenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease revumenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additionally, concomitant use may increase exposure to M1, the active metabolite of revumenib, which may increase the risk for adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of acetaminophen with rifampin may increase the known risk of hepatotoxicity in relation to each drug. Severe hepatic dysfunction including fatalities were reported in patients taking rifampin with other hepatotoxic agents. (Moderate) It may be necessary to adjust the dosage of butalbital if given concurrently with rifampin. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of butalbital; coadministration may result in decreased butalbital plasma concentrations.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering barbiturates with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Barbiturates are inducers of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with barbiturates may result in decreased riluzole efficacy. In vitro findings suggest decreased riluzole exposure is likely. Riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are CYP1A2 inducers.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with butalbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ripretinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ripretinib with barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may decrease ripretinib anti-tumor activity. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ripretinib exposure by 61% and decreased DP-5439 exposure by 57%.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in risperidone efficacy during concomitant use of risperidone and barbiturates and increase risperidone dosage as appropriate based on response. For patients receiving long-acting risperidone dosage forms, supplemental oral risperidone may be required. Additionally, monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration due to the risk for additive CNS depression. Concomitant use may decrease risperidone exposure and increase the risk for CNS depression. Risperidone is a CYP3A substrate, and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced risperidone overall exposure by 50%.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease the exposure of both drugs, resulting in reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased virologic response and decreased efficacy of the barbiturate. A dose increase of the barbiturate may be necessary. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and inducer and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Roflumilast: (Major) Coadminister barbiturates and roflumilast cautiously as this may lead to reduced systemic exposure to roflumilast. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and roflumilast is a CYP3A4 substrate. In pharmacokinetic study, administration of a single dose of roflumilast in patients receiving another CYP3A4 inducer, rifampin, resulted in decreased roflumilast Cmax and AUC, as well as increased Cmax and decreased AUC of the active metabolite roflumilast N-oxide.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue ropivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of rotigotine with other CNS depressants, such as butalbital, can potentiate the sedation effects of rotigotine.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Saquinavir: (Major) Coadministration with phenobarbital and, potentially, other barbiturates may increase the metabolism of saquinavir and lead to decreased saquinavir concentrations resulting in reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and development of viral resistance. If saquinavir and barbiturates are used together, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sebetralstat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sebetralstat overall exposure by 83%.
Secobarbital: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of selegiline and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Although barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers and selegiline is a CYP3A4 substrate, adequate studies have not been conducted to evaluate their effect, if any, on the effectiveness of selegiline.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased selpercatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease selpercatinib exposure by 40% to 70%.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased selumetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selumetinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease selumetinib exposure by 38%.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Sildenafil: (Minor) Sildenafil is metabolized principally by the hepatic CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 isoenzymes. It can be expected that concomitant administration of CYP3A4 enzyme-inducers will decrease plasma levels of sildenafil, however, no interaction studies have been performed. CYP3A4 inducers include barbiturates.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Barbiturates are significant hepatic CYP3A4 inducers. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when barbiturates are co-administered with simvastatin, which is metabolized by CYP3A4.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and butalbital is not recommended for patients with CYP2C9*1/*3 and *2/*3 genotypes due to a significant decrease in siponimod exposure. Use of siponimod with butalbital is not recommended in any patient if they are also receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 inducer. Across CYP2C9 genotypes, coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer reduced siponimod exposure by up to 52%, according to in silico evaluation. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/strong CYP3A4 dual inducer decreased siponimod exposure by 57% in CY2C9*1/*1 subjects.
Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and barbiturates as use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A and P-gp inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer decreased sirolimus overall exposure by 82%.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Barbiturates, such as butalbital, may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with spironolactone.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Barbiturates, such as butalbital, may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with spironolactone.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Minor) St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum induces cytochrome P450 1A2. About 10 to 15% of the acetaminophen dose undergoes oxidative metabolism via cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2E1, 3A4 and 1A2, which produces the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinonimine. Thus, theoretically St. John's wort might increase the risk of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to NAPQI.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and butalbital. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of sufentanil with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if barbiturates must be administered. If concurrent use of sufentanil injection is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of sufentanil with barbiturates may decrease sufentanil plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of barbiturates may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Drugs such as barbiturates, which can induce cytochrome P-450 3A4, may decrease whole blood concentrations of tacrolimus. Monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood concentrations and appropriate dosage adjustments of tacrolimus are recommended.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of tapentadol with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tasimelteon: (Major) Concurrent use of tasimelteon and strong inducers of CYP3A4, such as barbiturates or primidone, should be avoided. Because tasimelteon is partially metabolized via CYP3A4, a large decrease in exposure is possible with the potential for reduced efficacy. During administration of tasimelteon with another potent inducer of CYP3A4, tasimelteon exposure decreased by about 90%. Barbiturates also induce CYP1A2, a secondary metabolic pathway of tasimelteon.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tazemetostat and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased tazemetostat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tazemetostat overall exposure by 84%.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur with concurrent use.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as butalbital, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tetracaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue tetracaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of barbiturate anxiolytics, sedatives, or hypnotics with thalidomide may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided. Thalidomide frequently causes drowsiness and somnolence. Dose reductions may be required. Patients should be instructed to avoid situations where drowsiness may be a problem and not to take other medications that may cause drowsiness without adequate medical advice. Advise patients as to the possible impairment of mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks, such as driving a car or operating other complex or dangerous machinery.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) The metabolism of aminophylline can be increased by concurrent use with barbiturates. Patients should be monitored for loss of therapeutic effect if a barbiturate is added is added to aminophylline therapy. Conversely, the hypnotic effects of barbiturates can be reduced by aminophylline. (Moderate) The metabolism of theophylline can be increased by concurrent use with barbiturates. Patients should be monitored for loss of therapeutic effect if a barbiturate is added is added to theophylline therapy. Conversely, the hypnotic effects of barbiturates can be reduced by theophylline.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of the barbiturates. Barbiturates may induce the hepatic metabolism of thiothixene, possibly resulting in decreased neuroleptic effect. Thiothixene does not intensify the anticonvulsant effects of the barbiturates.
Thyroid hormones: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ticagrelor with barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ticagrelor. Ticagrelor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ticagrelor exposure by 86%.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of tipranavir if coadministered with barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of tipranavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Tipranavir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers.
Tivozanib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tivozanib with barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of tivozanib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tivozanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the overall exposure of tivozanib by 52%.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Tofacitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tofacitinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease tofacitinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tofacitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tofacitinib overall exposure by 84%.
Tolcapone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of tramadol with a barbiturate can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of seizures, serotonin syndrome, and the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of tramadol with a barbiturate can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of seizures, serotonin syndrome, and the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Barbiturates have been shown to enhance the hepatic clearance of verapamil. The effect on oral verapamil is greater than for IV verapamil, but a significant increase in clearance has been noted for both verapamil dosage forms during concomitant administration of a barbiturate. Patients receiving verapamil should be monitored for loss of therapeutic effect if barbiturates are added.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. This may enhance drowsiness or dizziness. Barbiturates should generally be given at a reduced dose with an MAOI.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of trazodone and butalbital. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin with barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease tretinoin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to triamcinolone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; triamcinolone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to triamcinolone during concurrent use.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with triprolidine.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Valbenazine: (Major) Co-administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, and valbenazine, a CYP3A4 substrate, is not recommended. Strong CYP3A4 inducers can decrease systemic exposure of valbenazine and its active metabolite compared to the use of valbenazine alone. Reduced exposure of valbenazine and its active metabolite may reduce efficacy.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Major) Patients who are taking barbiturates should generally avoid concomitant administration of valerian. Any substances that act on the CNS, including sedatives and hypnotics, may theoretically interact with valerian, Valeriana officinalis. The valerian derivative, dihydrovaltrate, binds at barbiturate binding sites; valerenic acid has been shown to inhibit enzyme-induced breakdown of GABA in the brain; the non-volatile monoterpenes (valepotriates) have sedative activity. These interactions are probably pharmacodynamic in nature. There is a possibility of interaction with valerian at normal prescription dosages of sedatives and hypnotics.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Valproic acid has been shown to inhibit the hepatic metabolism of phenobarbital. It is likely that other barbiturates, like butalbital, would be affected similarly by valproic acid. Patients should be monitored for an exaggerated barbiturate effect if valproic acid is used concomitantly.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 82% and 90%, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 82% and 90%, respectively.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and acetaminophen may result in altered concentrations of acetaminophen. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 and CYP2A6, and an inducer of CYP3A4. Acetaminophen is a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Verapamil: (Major) Barbiturates have been shown to enhance the hepatic clearance of verapamil. The effect on oral verapamil is greater than for IV verapamil, but a significant increase in clearance has been noted for both verapamil dosage forms during concomitant administration of a barbiturate. Patients receiving verapamil should be monitored for loss of therapeutic effect if barbiturates are added.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given with barbiturates.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
vinCRIStine: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voclosporin with butalbital. Coadministration may decrease voclosporin exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease voclosporin exposure by 70%.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Voriconazole is contraindicated for use with long-acting barbiturates, such as butalbital containing products. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inducers and may increase the metabolism and reduce the effective serum concentrations of voriconazole. Barbiturates are also substrates for CYP2C9, and voriconazole may theoretically increase the serum concentrations of the barbiturates.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with barbiturates is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. Barbiturates are CYP1A2 and moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A4 inducers and warfarin's enantiomers are substrates of CYP1A2/CYP2C9/CYP3A4. Discontinuation of a barbiturate during warfarin therapy has led to fatal bleeding episodes when the hepatic enzyme-inducing properties of the barbiturate subside. Clinicians should note that warfarin doses will require readjustment if a barbiturate is added or discontinued during warfarin therapy. Dosage adjustments of warfarin may be necessary within 2 weeks of beginning barbiturate treatment, but the effect of the barbiturate on warfarin metabolism may persist for more than a month after discontinuing the barbiturate. (Minor) Although acetaminophen is routinely considered safer than aspirin and agent of choice when a mild analgesic/antipyretic is necessary for a patient receiving therapy with warfarin, acetaminophen has also been shown to augment the hypoprothrombinemic response to warfarin. Concomitant acetaminophen ingestion may result in increases in the INR in a dose-related fashion. Clinical bleeding has been reported. Single doses or short (i.e., several days) courses of treatment with acetaminophen are probably safe in most patients taking warfarin. Clinicians should be alert for an increased INR if acetaminophen is administered in large daily doses for longer than 10 to 14 days.
Zaleplon: (Major) Coadministration of zaleplon and barbiturates may result in additive CNS depression. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate. In addition, zaleplon is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, may increase the clearance of zaleplon. Dosage adjustments should be made on an individual basis according to efficacy and tolerability.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of zanubrutinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased zanubrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased zanubrutinib exposure by 93%.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Ziprasidone is partially metabolized via the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A decrease in ziprasidone plasma levels could potentially occur if the drug is used concurrently with inducers of CYP3A4 including barbiturates. Additive CNS depressant effects are also possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with barbiturates.
Zoliflodacin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of zoliflodacin and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased zoliflodacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zoliflodacin is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce zoliflodacin overall exposure by 56%.
ZOLMitriptan: (Minor) Zolmitriptan can delay the Tmax of acetaminophen by one hour. A single 1 g dose of acetaminophen does not alter the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan and its active metabolite. The interaction between zolmitriptan and acetaminophen is not likely to be clinically significant.
Zolpidem: (Major) Concurrent use of zolpidem with barbiturates should be avoided if possible due to additive CNS depression. Sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of zolpidem and other CNS depressants than zolpidem alone. Concurrent use of zolpidem with other sedative-hypnotics at bedtime or in the middle of the night is not recommended. Dosage reduction may be required for co-use in some patients. For example, a dosage reduction of the Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets to 1.75 mg/night is recommended when used with another CNS depressant. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 enzyme inducers and may cause decreased plasma concentrations of zolpidem; in some patients efficacy may be reduced. CYP3A4 is the primary isoenzyme responsible for zolpidem metabolism, and there is evidence of significant decreases in systemic exposure and pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem during coadministration of a potent CYP3A4 inducer.
Zongertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zongertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zongertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, double the zongertinib dose: from 120 mg to 240 mg in those weighing less than 90 kg, and from 180 mg to 360 mg in those weighing 90 kg or more. Zongertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zongertinib overall exposure by 63%.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Zonisamide is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme 3A4. Barbiturates are inducers of CYP3A4 and can reduce the systemic exposure to zonisamide by increasing the metabolism of the drug.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: The monograph discusses the use of acetaminophen; butalbital combination products. Clinicians may wish to consult the acetaminophen monograph for more information about the adverse effects of acetaminophen.
 
Overuse of combination analgesics such as acetaminophen; butalbital products by headache-prone patients frequently produces drug-induced rebound headache. Overuse of acetaminophen; butalbital products has been defined as taking 3 or more doses per day more often than 3 days per week. The frequency of use may be more important than the dose. Features of a rebound headache include morning headache, end-of-dosing interval headache, or headache improvement with discontinuation of overused medication. Stopping the symptomatic medication may result in a period of increased headache and then headache improvement. Analgesic overuse may be responsible for the transformation of episodic migraine or episodic tension headache into daily headache and may perpetuate the syndrome.
 
The most common CNS-depressant adverse effects associated with acetaminophen; butalbital are drowsiness, vertigo, dizziness, lethargy, and dyspnea or shortness of breath. Less commonly observed are headache, agitation, malaise, and syncope. Butalbital can also cause respiratory depression, which is more common in elderly or debilitated patients or when acetaminophen; butalbital is given with other agents that cause CNS depression (see Drug Interactions). Excitation, euphoria, mental depression, and confusion may also develop, especially in older or debilitated patients or in patients that have taken too much butalbital. Residual sedation, mood distortions, and impaired cognition are possible the day after acetaminophen; butalbital consumption, as butalbital has a long half-life (see Pharmacokinetics). Patients undertaking activities requiring mental alertness should be warned of possible adverse effects. Adverse behavioral reactions, such as emotional lability, faulty judgment, and disinhibition of sexual and aggressive impulses may occur. Ptosis may also occur, especially with an overdose situation. If too much butalbital is consumed, respiratory depression, hypotension, tachycardia, and depressed level of consciousness are anticipated signs and symptoms. Low blood pressure is usually a result of an increased venous capacitance. Thus, intravenous fluid administration may be appropriate.
 
Nausea/vomiting and abdominal pain are commonly associated with acetaminophen; butalbital. Infrequently, constipation has occurred. The presence of nausea/vomiting or abdominal pain may be indicative of hepatic damage. Acetaminophen can be hepatotoxic. In most cases, acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity occurs as a result of an acute overdose; however, moderately excessive doses, if taken chronically, may also produce hepatotoxicity. Furthermore, idiosyncratic reactions have been noted. Hepatic necrosis, jaundice, bleeding and encephalopathy are possible outcomes. After acute overdose, 2 or 3 days pass before maximum liver damage becomes apparent. Nausea/vomiting, anorexia, and abdominal pain usually occur within 2—3 hours of ingestion of toxic doses. Elevated hepatic enzymes and hypoprothrombinemia are also seen with acetaminophen overdose. Administration of intravenous vitamin K is recommended for hypoprothrombinemia due to acetaminophen overdosage. Immediate acetylcysteine administration is recommended if the ingested acetaminophen dose is at least 140 mg/kg. Obtain immediate and daily serum transaminase concentrations. Serum acetaminophen concentrations that are obtained at least 4 hours after acetaminophen ingestion help predict toxicity; however, do not delay acetylcysteine administration for serum acetaminophen concentration results. Ethanol and other drugs can affect the likelihood and severity of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity (see Drug Interactions).
 
Acetaminophen can cause acute renal tubular necrosis and chronic analgesic nephropathy, which is characterized by interstitial nephritis and renal papillary necrosis, in patients receiving high doses (e.g., 2.5—10 g/day) chronically or after acute overdose. Acute renal failure (unspecified) may occur in 25—30% of patients secondary to liver dysfunction. Rarely, acute renal failure may occur without severe hepatic toxicity. The risk of renal complications appears to be higher in patients with alcoholism. Chronic acetaminophen use has been implicated as a contributing factor in the decline of renal function in patients with underlying renal disease, including diabetic nephropathy.
 
Methemoglobinemia can occur after acute overdoses of acetaminophen and can lead to hemolysis thereby causing hemolytic anemia. This can result in cyanosis of the fingernails, skin, and mucosa. Slow intravenous administration of methylene blue is recommended for the treatment of methemoglobinemia above 30%. Other hematologic reactions reported with acetaminophen include agranulocytosis, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, and pancytopenia. Acetaminophen sulfate, a metabolite of acetaminophen, may cause immune-mediated thrombocytopenia. Two adults had improvement in their platelet counts from 45—50 x109/L to 165—325 x109/L within 7—10 days of acetaminophen discontinuation. The sera from each patient had antibodies against platelets in the presence of acetaminophen sulfate. Agranulocytosis, thrombocytosis, and pancytopenia have only been documented in the literature after acetaminophen overdose. Blood dyscrasias can also occur during therapy with barbiturates. Regular blood tests should be undertaken if acetaminophen; butalbital is to be used for long-term therapy. Symptoms such as unusual tiredness or weakness, unusual bleeding or bruising, and unexplained sore throat or elevated temperature should be investigated promptly.
 
A case of acquired purpura fulminans developed in a 32 year-old woman who was instructed to take acetaminophen 1000 mg every 4—6 hours as needed for pain. The patient noted rapidly spreading purpuric lesions and edema. Her lesions were nonblanchable and enlarging, and she had multiple purplish-black hemorrhagic and necrotic areas. Purpura fulminans is usually associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation and can occur in patients with inherited or acquired deficiencies of the protein C anticoagulant pathway. The patient developed acquired protein C deficiency from alcohol-induced hepatotoxicity. Fibrin thrombi in the dermal blood vessels, a characteristic finding of purpura fulminans, were present. Discontinuation of alcohol and acetaminophen and administration of vitamin K, heparin, and a systemic antibiotic led to almost complete purpuric lesion and hepatotoxicity resolution in 6 days.
 
Hypersensitivity reactions to acetaminophen; butalbital may be manifested by urticaria, erythema, generalized pruritus, rash (unspecified), maculopapular rash, fever, photosensitivity, acneiform rash, and purpura. Discontinuation of acetaminophen; butalbital may not be sufficient to reverse cutaneous reactions because of the slow metabolism and excretion of butalbital. Several cases of erythema multiforme and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) have been associated with acetaminophen; butalbital use. Anaphylactic shock, angioedema, and anaphylactoid reactions have been rarely reported with acetaminophen; butalbital. Toxic epidermal necrolysis occurred in a 7-year old girl after she took 3 doses of acetaminophen 10 mg/kg. Twelve hours after the last dose, an erythematous rash appeared, which became generalized over the next few hours. The patient developed a fever, low blood pressure and an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and liver function tests. A skin biopsy showed subepidermal blister formation with full-thickness necrolysis of the epidermis and a sparse upper dermal lymphocytic infiltrate. On rechallenge with 10 mg/kg given orally, fever, low blood pressure, and diffuse urticaria and erythema developed 30 minutes after acetaminophen ingestion. In addition to the case of TEN, 4 cases of allergic contact dermatitis (delayed hypersensitivity type) have been reported in the literature. Various reactions including generalized pruriginous micropapular eruption, facial edema, generalized pruriginous exanthem, exfoliative dermatitis, and generalized exanthema occurred within several hours after acetaminophen ingestion. Acetaminophen has also been associated with acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). The nonfollicular, pustular, erythematous rash starts suddenly, is associated with fever above 38 degrees C, and is distinct from pustular psoriasis, although biopsy results in each reveal spongiform subcorneal pustules. Drugs are the main cause of AGEP. A period of 2—3 weeks after an inciting drug exposure appears necessary for a first episode of AGEP. Unintentional reexposure may cause a second episode within 2 days. Clinical presentation is diverse with cutaneous lesions beyond erythema and pustules present in half of the cases. For example, bullous lesions, edema, purpura, pruritus, and mucosal erosions are possible. The mean duration of the pustules is 9.7 days followed by an annular desquamation, as long as the causative drug or factor is discontinued. The physiopathological mechanisms of AGEP have not been determined but the pathological criteria of edema, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, eosinophil exocytosis, and keratinocyte focal necrosis are distinctive. Pustule confluence or very small pustules may lead a clinician to make an incorrect diagnosis of TEN, of drug-induced erythroderma, or of staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome.
 
When increasing doses of analgesia are required, the cause may be multi-factorial, including tolerance, progression of disease or psychologic distress. Tolerance is the need for increasing doses to maintain effects. Typically, tolerance presents as a decrease in the duration of effects and can be managed by increasing the dose or frequency; however, dosage increases in patients receiving acetaminophen combination therapy will be limited by the total daily dose of acetaminophen and butalbital (see Dosage). Also, although tolerance to the sedative/hypnotic effects of butalbital readily occurs, tolerance to the lethal amount only increases 2-fold. Thus, patients may feel that they need more drug, but the increased amount may cause fatal respiratory depression.
 
Psychological dependence (addiction) and physiological dependence (e.g., physical dependence) to butalbital may occur with chronic usage of acetaminophen; butalbital. Extended and repeated use of acetaminophen; butalbital is not recommended because of the potential for physical dependence. Patients with physical dependence may develop signs and symptoms of withdrawal (e.g., anxiety, dizziness, insomnia, headache, tremulousness, nausea) when stopping regular usage of acetaminophen; butalbital. Seizures and delirium with or without hallucinations may occur within 16 hours and last up to 5 days after abrupt discontinuation of acetaminophen; butalbital (see Contraindications). Withdrawal symptoms usually appear 8—36 hours after the last dose, reach a maximum around 40 hours, and decline gradually over 2—15 days. Receipt of 120 mg of phenobarbital every hour starting 1 hour after discontinuation of a butalbital containing medicine until a score on a rating scale was reached prevented withdrawal symptoms in 18 adults. Nystagmus, dysarthria, ataxia, drowsiness, and emotional liability are assessed before the first and each subsequent phenobarbital dose. The strategy alleviates concern of under-reporting or over-reporting of butalbital usage. No serious adverse events occurred during phenobarbital loading.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: This section discusses the use of butalbital; acetaminophen combination products. Clinicians may wish to consult the acetaminophen monograph for more information about the adverse effects of acetaminophen.
    Headline
    agitation, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, emotional lability, euphoria, fatigue, hot flashes, impaired cognition, lethargy, paresthesias, ptosis, seizures, syncope, vertigo
    General Information
    Common central nervous system (CNS) adverse effects associated with butalbital; acetaminophen are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, and an intoxicated feeling. Feelings of shakiness, paresthesias, and hot flashes have been reported. Vertigo, agitation, lethargy, sedation, fainting (syncope), fatigue, heavy or drooping eyelids (ptosis), high energy, numbness, sluggishness, and seizures have occurred. Mental confusion, CNS depression, excitement, or euphoria can also occur, particularly in elderly or debilitated patients, or in patients who have exceeded the recommended dose of butalbital. Residual sedation, mood distortions (emotional lability), and impaired cognition are possible. Because butalbital can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, there is a higher risk of falls, particularly in the elderly, with the potential for subsequent severe injuries. Patients undertaking activities requiring mental alertness should be warned of possible adverse effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ptosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, dysphagia, flatulence, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain were among the most frequently reported adverse reactions with butalbital; acetaminophen. Other reported adverse gastrointestinal effects include dysphagia, dyspepsia (heartburn), flatulence, constipation, and xerostomia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anorexia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, malaise
    General Information
    The hepatic effects of acetaminophen are well-known. In a study of combined data collected over a 5-year period (1998 to 2003) from 22 specialty medical centers in the United States, acetaminophen-induced liver injury was the leading cause of acute hepatic failure. Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing. Young children appear to be at less risk of developing hepatotoxicity, possibly because of an age-related difference in the metabolism of the drug. Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity is manifested as hepatic necrosis, jaundice, and hepatic encephalopathy. Early nonspecific symptoms include nausea, vomiting, anorexia, abdominal pain, and malaise. After acute overdose, elevated hepatic enzymes occur within 12 to 36 hours, and maximal liver damage and hepatic impairment peak 3 to 5 days after ingestion. GI bleeding can occur secondary to hypoprothrombinemia. Administration of intravenous vitamin K is recommended for hypoprothrombinemia due to acetaminophen overdosage. If more than 150 to 200 mg/kg, 10 g, or an unknown amount of acetaminophen is ingested, a serum acetaminophen concentration should be obtained 4 hours after ingestion or as soon as possible thereafter. Prompt administration of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which serves as a substitute sulfhydryl donor for glutathione, should occur if the acetaminophen concentration plots above the treatment line on the Rumack-Matthew nomogram. NAC treatment should begin immediately if the estimated time after ingestion approaches 8 hours. Acetaminophen misuse should be avoided; recommended doses should not be exceeded and intake should be accounted for from all sources (e.g., single-entity products and combination products). Excessive acetaminophen exposure, malnutrition, concurrent ethanol consumption (acute and chronic), and/or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid) may lead to greater exposure of the toxic metabolite, N-acetyl-para-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI), and increase the risk for toxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypoprothrombinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic encephalopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    interstitial nephritis, renal failure (unspecified), renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis
    General Information
    Acetaminophen has been associated with chronic analgesic nephropathy, a condition characterized by interstitial nephritis and renal papillary necrosis in patients receiving large doses of analgesics for an extended period of time. Though the National Kidney Foundation states there is negligible evidence to suggest chronic acetaminophen use causes analgesic nephropathy, they have recognized a weak association between chronic use and the prevalence of chronic renal failure (unspecified) and end stage renal disease. In addition, acetaminophen overdose can result in acute renal failure and renal tubular necrosis, though such toxicity rarely occurs without severe hepatic toxicity. The risk of renal complications appears to be higher in patients with poor nutrition, chronic alcohol consumption, or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial nephritis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      renal papillary necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      renal tubular necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis
    General Information
    Case reports of agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, neutropenia, and pancytopenia have been described in patients taking acetaminophen. Symptoms such as unusual tiredness or weakness, unusual bleeding or bruising, and unexplained sore throat or fever should be investigated promptly.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pancytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hemolysis, hemolytic anemia
    General Information
    Drug-induced hemolysis and hemolytic anemia have been associated with acetaminophen overdose in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Though several case reports of hemolytic anemia in G6PD-deficient patients receiving therapeutic doses of acetaminophen exist, a direct cause and effect relationship has not been well established. G6PD-deficient patients presenting with acetaminophen toxicity should be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of hemolysis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hemolysis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hemolytic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    purpura
    General Information
    A case of acquired purpura fulminans developed in a 32 year old woman who was instructed to take acetaminophen 1,000 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. The patient noted rapidly spreading purpuric lesions and associated edema. Her lesions were nonblanchable and enlarging, and she had multiple purplish-black hemorrhagic and necrotic areas. Purpura fulminans is usually associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation and can occur in patients with inherited or acquired deficiencies of the protein C anticoagulant pathway. Based on the patient's history of alcohol use and poor nutritional status, the authors concluded that reduced hepatic glutathione stores were further reduced by the introduction of acetaminophen, leading to impaired protein C and S synthesis and propagation of the disseminated intravascular coagulation cascade. Discontinuation of alcohol and acetaminophen and administration of vitamin K, heparin, and a systemic antibiotic led to almost complete purpuric lesion and hepatotoxicity resolution in 6 days.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    acneiform rash, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, contact dermatitis, erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, fever, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria
    General Information
    Various hypersensitivity reactions to butalbital; acetaminophen have been observed. These reactions may manifest as urticaria, erythema, generalized pruritus, rash (unspecified), maculopapular rash, fever, vomiting, photosensitivity, acneiform rash, and purpura. Angioedema and anaphylactoid reactions with butalbital; acetaminophen have been reported during postmarketing experience. Several cases of erythema multiforme and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been associated with butalbital; acetaminophen use. Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) due to acetaminophen has also been reported in the literature. In addition to the case of TEN, 4 cases of allergic contact dermatitis (delayed hypersensitivity type) have also been published. Various reactions including generalized pruriginous micropapular eruption, facial edema, generalized pruriginous exanthem, exfoliative dermatitis, and generalized exanthema have occurred within several hours after acetaminophen ingestion. Acetaminophen has also been associated with acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). The nonfollicular, pustular, erythematous rash starts suddenly and is associated with fever above 38 degrees C. Drugs are the main cause of AGEP. The physiopathological mechanisms of AGEP have not been determined, but the pathological criteria of edema, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, eosinophil exocytosis, and keratinocyte focal necrosis are distinctive. Pustule confluence or very small pustules may lead a clinician to make an incorrect diagnosis of TEN, drug-induced erythroderma, or of staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome. Additionally, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) has been reported with acetaminophen. Inform patients about the symptoms of serious skin reactions. Discontinue the drug at the first appearance of skin rash or other sign of hypersensitivity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      contact dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    tolerance
    General Information
    When increasing doses of analgesia are required, the cause may be multi-factorial, including tolerance, progression of disease, or psychologic distress. Tolerance is the need for increasing doses to maintain effects. Typically, tolerance presents as a decrease in the duration of effects and can be managed by increasing the dose or frequency; however, dosage increases in patients receiving acetaminophen combination therapy will be limited by the total daily dose of butalbital; acetaminophen. Also, although tolerance to the sedative/hypnotic effects of butalbital readily occurs, tolerance to the lethal amount only increases 2-fold. Thus, patients may feel that they need more drug, but the increased amount may cause fatal respiratory depression.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Psychological dependence (addiction) and physiological dependence (e.g., physical dependence) to butalbital may occur with chronic usage of butalbital; acetaminophen. Extended and repeated use is not recommended because of the potential for physical dependence. Patients with physical dependence may develop signs and symptoms of withdrawal (e.g., anxiety, dizziness, insomnia, headache, tremulousness, nausea) when stopping regular usage of butalbital; acetaminophen. Seizures and delirium with or without hallucinations may occur within 16 hours and last up to 5 days after abrupt discontinuation. Withdrawal symptoms usually appear 8 to 36 hours after the last dose, reach a maximum around 40 hours, and then gradually decline over 2 to 15 days. Receipt of 120 mg of phenobarbital every hour, starting 1 hour after discontinuation of a butalbital containing medicine, until a score on a rating scale was reached prevented withdrawal symptoms in 18 adults. Nystagmus, dysarthria, ataxia, drowsiness, and emotional liability are assessed before the first and each subsequent phenobarbital dose. The strategy alleviates concern of under-reporting or over-reporting of butalbital usage. No serious adverse events occurred during phenobarbital loading.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    headache, medication overuse headache
    General Information
    Headache has been reported with butalbital; acetaminophen therapy. Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including butalbital; acetaminophen, may lead to medication overuse headache. Patients may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise patients about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of butalbital; acetaminophen or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use. Pediatric guidelines recommend no more than 14 days/month of over-the-counter medication and no more than 9 days/month of any combination of therapy to avoid medication overuse headache.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      medication overuse headache
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hyperhidrosis, musculoskeletal pain, otalgia, tinnitus
    General Information
    Infrequently observed adverse reactions to butalbital; acetaminophen include muscle fatigue, musculoskeletal pain (including leg pain), hyperhidrosis, tinnitus, and earache (otalgia).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      otalgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    diuresis, increased urinary frequency
    General Information
    Increased urinary frequency and diuresis have been noted with butalbital; acetaminophen use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diuresis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Sinus tachycardia has been observed with butalbital; acetaminophen therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    coma, dyspnea, hypotension, nasal congestion, respiratory depression
    General Information
    Shortness of breath is one of the most frequently reported adverse reactions to butalbital; acetaminophen use. Dyspnea and nasal congestion have also been observed. Excessive barbiturate doses may cause drowsiness, confusion, coma, respiratory depression, hypotension, and hypovolemic shock.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      coma
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Acetaminophen, a non-salicylate analgesic, and butalbital, a barbiturate, are used together in oral products to treat tension headaches in adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older, especially when antianxiety or relaxant effects are needed. Treatment of multiple recurrent headaches with butalbital; acetaminophen has not been well studied, and prolonged use of these products is not recommended. No data are available from randomized, placebo-controlled trials to prove or refute the efficacy of butalbital; acetaminophen for the acute treatment of migraines. According to published guidelines for the acute management of migraine, the use of butalbital-containing analgesics should be limited and carefully monitored due to concerns of overuse, medication-overuse headache, abuse, and withdrawal. All acetaminophen-containing products carry a boxed warning in their prescribing information regarding the risk for hepatotoxicity, particularly with oral doses exceeding 4 grams per day.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Butalbital is a barbiturate with CNS depressive (sedative) properties; acetaminophen is an analgesic. The role each component plays in the relief of tension headache symptoms is not completely understood.
 
Butalbital: Barbiturates inhibit ascending conduction in the reticular formation, which interferes with conduction of impulses to the cortex causing sensory cortex depression, decreased motor activity, drowsiness, sedation and changes in cerebral function. Barbiturates bind to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors. GABA A receptor binding by barbiturates causes inhibition of the postsynaptic neuron, as the physiologic substrate for the receptor is GABA, which is an inhibitory amino acid. Barbiturates enhance GABA binding to GABA A receptors, which prolongs the duration of GABA-induced chloride channel opening and promotes binding of a benzodiazepine to the GABA A receptor. Benzodiazepines increase the frequency of GABA-induced chloride channel opening. Thus, additive CNS depressant effects occur with concomitant barbiturate and benzodiazepine usage. Binding of a barbiturate to the AMPA receptor prevents the binding of the physiologic substrate, AMPA, an excitatory amino acid. The activation of GABA A receptors and the inhibition of AMPA receptors causes a nonselective depressant effect throughout the CNS that can range from mild sedation to general anesthesia. Butalbital does not have a direct analgesic action; pain perception is relatively unimpaired until the moment of unconsciousness. Thus, butalbital has a low therapeutic index.
Acetaminophen: Acetaminophen acts primarily in the CNS and increases the pain threshold by inhibiting cyclooxygenase, an enzyme involved in prostaglandin (PG) synthesis. Acetaminophen inhibits both isoforms of central cyclooxygenase, COX-1 and COX-2. It does not inhibit PG synthesis in peripheral tissues, which is the reason for its lack of peripheral anti-inflammatory effects.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Butalbital and acetaminophen are both well absorbed from the GI tract. During migraines, gastric stasis may occur that could alter the pharmacokinetic parameters of these agents. Time to onset of analgesia is about 1-2 hours.
Butalbital: The time to maximum serum concentration is 2 hours. Toxicity may be seen with a serum concentration between 10 and 20 mcg/mL; coma and fatality may occur with concentrations of 25 mcg/mL and higher. Distribution of butalbital appears to be extensive: the drug readily crosses the placenta. In vitro, butalbital is 45% plasma protein bound over the serum concentration range of 0.5-20 mcg/mL.
Acetaminophen: About 85% of a dose appears in the urine within 24 hours of oral administration.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic data regarding butalbital; acetaminophen usage in patients with hepatic impairment are not available. Butalbital; acetaminophen should be used with extreme caution in patients with impaired hepatic function.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic data regarding butalbital; acetaminophen usage in patients with renal impairment are not available.
  Text
  Butalbital; acetaminophen is administered orally. Time to analgesia onset is about 1 to 2 hours.
Butalbital: Butalbital is metabolized by the hepatic microsomal system and has a plasma half-life of about 35 hours. Of the metabolites, 32% are conjugated. Butalbital is renally eliminated as metabolites and unchanged drug (3-4%). Butalbital is renally eliminated as metabolites and unchanged drug (3-4%). The elimination half-life is 61 hours (range, 35-88 hours). Thus, drug accumulation will occur if taken on a daily basis.
Acetaminophen: Acetaminophen is metabolized in the liver via glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation. About 10-15% of the acetaminophen dose undergoes oxidative metabolism via cytochrome P450 isoenzymes (CYP) 2E1 and 1A2, which produces the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinonimine (NAPQI). The P450 isoenzyme 3A4 appears to have a minor role in the metabolism of acetaminophen. Glutathione is necessary for inactivation of NAPQI to thioether metabolites, which are excreted in the urine. Fasting shifts the metabolic pathway away from glucuronidation towards oxidation, which results in greater NAPQI amounts that need to be inactivated by conjugation with glutathione. The plasma half-life of acetaminophen in patients with normal hepatic function is 1.25-3 hours. Acetaminophen is renally eliminated mainly as the glucuronide conjugate.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer for an acute headache as soon as headache occurs.
Administer with a full glass of water. May be taken orally without regard to meals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Butalbital 300 mg per day PO and acetaminophen 3,900 mg per day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Butalbital 300 mg per day PO and acetaminophen 3,900 mg per day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Butalbital 300 mg per day PO and acetaminophen 3,900 mg per day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: Butalbital 300 mg per day PO and acetaminophen 3,900 mg per day PO.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Butalbital; acetaminophen should be used with extreme caution in patients with impaired hepatic function; no quantitative recommendations are available. Regular monitoring of hepatic function is advisable.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. Use caution in patients with end-stage renal disease or severe renal impairment as excessive sedation from barbiturates may occur.
