=== Vandetanib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3722)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Vandetanib is a kinase inhibitor that is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive medullary thyroid cancer in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 300 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arrhythmia exacerbation, cardiac arrest, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, qt prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular tachycardia, acneiform rash, alopecia, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, onycholysis, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, xerosis, fever, infection, laryngitis, pharyngitis, pneumonitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, tracheitis, dysgeusia, headache, stroke, bleeding

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Reduce the starting dose of vandetanib in patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 49 mL/min) and closely monitor the QT interval. Vandetanib is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) or renal failure; there is no information available... Patient counseling: Vandetanib is associated with photosensitivity. Emetic risk: Minimal/Low Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1

Brand Names
  - Caprelsa

Dosage Forms
  - Caprelsa 100mg Tablet
  - Caprelsa 300mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        300 mg orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Median progression-free survival (PFS) was significantly improved in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic medullary thyroid cancer who received treatment with vandetanib (n = 231) compared with placebo (n = 100) (not reached vs. 16.4 months) in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial; median overall survival was similar between treatment arms (81.6 months vs. 80.4 months).
    Heading
    For the treatment of symptomatic or progressive medullary thyroid cancer in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Reduce the starting dose of vandetanib in patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 49 mL/min) and closely monitor the QT interval. Vandetanib is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) or renal failure; there is no information available for patients with end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis. Nephrotoxicity can occur with vandetanib use; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Vandetanib is not recommended for use in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B; Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure, as safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Do not begin therapy with vandetanib in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Monitor blood pressure in all patients during treatment. Initiate or adjust antihypertensive therapy as appropriate. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hypertension occurs.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes
    General Information
    Vandetanib is contraindicated in people with congenital long QT syndrome. Avoid use of vandetanib in other people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. According to the manufacturer, vandetanib should not be initiated in patients with a QTcF interval greater than 450 msec. Obtain an ECG and serum calcium, magnesium, potassium, and TSH at baseline, 2 to 4 weeks after starting treatment, 8 to 12 weeks after starting treatment, and every 3 months thereafter. Monitor electrolytes periodically during treatment and correct hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, and/or hypomagnesemia to within normal ranges prior to administration.
    Headline
    bleeding, hemoptysis
    General Information
    Do not administer vandetanib to people with a recent history of hemoptysis of 1/2 teaspoon or more of red blood; use with caution in patients with recent bleeding episodes. Serious hemorrhagic events, some fatal, have occurred with vandetanib therapy. Discontinue vandetanib in the case of severe hemorrhage.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Vandetanib can cause drowsiness, blurred vision, and dizziness. Advise patients to use caution when performing activities requiring coordination and concentration or when driving or operating machinery until the effect of the drug is established.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use vandetanib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with vandetanib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt vandetanib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.
    Headline
    major surgery, planned procedure
    General Information
    Do not administer vandetanib for at least 1 month prior to a planned procedure or elective surgery. After major surgery, wait at least 2 weeks and until adequate wound healing prior to restarting vandetanib therapy. Impaired wound healing can occur in patients who receive drugs that inhibit the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathway such as vandetanib. The safety of resuming treatment after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established.
    Headline
    dental disease, dental work
    General Information
    Avoid invasive dental work while on vandetanib therapy if possible, especially in patients at higher risk for osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) including those with concomitant exposure to bisphosphonates or denosumab. If unavoidable, withhold vandetanib therapy for at least 1 month prior to scheduled dental surgery or invasive dental work. Use vandetanib with caution in patients with dental disease due to the risk of ONJ. Perform an oral examination prior to initiation of vandetanib therapy and periodically during treatment; advise patients regarding good oral hygiene practices. Permanently discontinue vandetanib if ONJ develops.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Vandetanib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no human data to evaluate a drug-associated risk. Vandetanib was embryotoxic, fetotoxic, and induced fetal malformations in rats at exposures less than or equal to those expected at the recommended human dose based on Cmax. Administration of vandetanib to rats prior to mating and through the first week of pregnancy at doses approximately equal to the human exposure increased preimplantation and post-implantation loss, resulting in a reduction in the number of live embryos. Vandetanib exposure during organogenesis resulted in increased post-implantation loss, including occasional total litter loss, at doses approximately equal to the human exposure. At doses approximately 0.4 times the human exposure, vandetanib administration resulted in late embryo-fetal death and decreased fetal birth weight. Exposures of approximately 0.03 times the human exposure or more resulted in dose-dependent increases in both malformations of the heart vessels and skeletal variations, including delayed ossification of the skull, vertebrae, and sternum, indicating delayed fetal development. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with vandetanib. Vandetanib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant and those who can cause pregnancy in others to use effective contraception while taking vandetanib and for 4 months after the last dose. Based on animal data, vandetanib may impair male and female fertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking vandetanib and for 4 months after the last dose. Vandetanib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of vandetanib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production. Vandetanib is present in animal milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Vandetanib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no human data to evaluate a drug-associated risk. Vandetanib was embryotoxic, fetotoxic, and induced fetal malformations in rats at exposures less than or equal to those expected at the recommended human dose based on Cmax. Administration of vandetanib to rats prior to mating and through the first week of pregnancy at doses approximately equal to the human exposure increased preimplantation and post-implantation loss, resulting in a reduction in the number of live embryos. Vandetanib exposure during organogenesis resulted in increased post-implantation loss, including occasional total litter loss, at doses approximately equal to the human exposure. At doses approximately 0.4 times the human exposure, vandetanib administration resulted in late embryo-fetal death and decreased fetal birth weight. Exposures of approximately 0.03 times the human exposure or more resulted in dose-dependent increases in both malformations of the heart vessels and skeletal variations, including delayed ossification of the skull, vertebrae, and sternum, indicating delayed fetal development. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking vandetanib and for 4 months after the last dose. Vandetanib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of vandetanib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production. Vandetanib is present in animal milk.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with alfuzosin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with amisulpride due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with clarithromycin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Anagrelide: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with vandetanib due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Torsade de pointes and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Vandetanib can also prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Apomorphine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with apomorphine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with arsenic trioxide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, frequently monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Torsade de pointes, QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with artemether; lumefantrine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Artesunate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in artesunate-related side effects if coadministered with vandetanib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and vandetanib is a strong UGT inhibitor.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with asenapine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with bedaquiline due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Bedaquiline has also been reported to prolong the QT interval. Coadministration with other QT-prolonging drugs may result in additive or synergistic prolongation of the QT interval.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with rilpivirine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with carbamazepine due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with ceritinib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for QT prolongation. Both drugs can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; sudden death and TdP have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with vandetanib due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with chlorpromazine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Because vandetanib causes QT prolonging effects that may be additive to those of cisapride, coadministration is contraindicated.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with clarithromycin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with clozapine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Treatment with clozapine has also been associated with QT prolongation, TdP, cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with crizotinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for both drugs if QT prolongation occurs. Both drugs can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have also been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with dasatinib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib also has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Degarelix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with degarelix due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with deutetrabenazine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypokalemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with quinidine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Quinidine administration is also associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Monitor closely for digoxin-related toxicities (e.g., arrhythmias, confusion, vision changes, and nausea) if coadministration with vandetanib is necessary. Digoxin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Coadministration with a single dose of vandetanib increased the Cmax and AUC of digoxin by 29% and 23%, respectively.
Disopyramide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with disopyramide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Disopyramide administration is also associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and vandetanib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with rilpivirine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with donepezil due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and TdP can occur during donepezil therapy.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with donepezil due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and TdP can occur during donepezil therapy.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and vandetanib is contraindicated. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Dronedarone administration is also associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should not be used in combination with any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval, such as vandetanib. If coadministration cannot be avoided, use extreme caution; initiate droperidol at a low dose and increase the dose as needed to achieve the desired effect. Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with efavirenz due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QTc interval has also been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with efavirenz due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QTc interval has also been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with efavirenz due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QTc interval has also been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with eliglustat due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with rilpivirine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with rilpivirine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of encorafenib with vandenatib due to the risk for decreased vandenatib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Vandenatib is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the AUC of vandetanib by 40%.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with entrectinib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with enzalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
eriBULin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with eribulin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with fingolimod due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility is advised after the first dose of fingolimod. Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes during therapy; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and fluconazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. If concomitant use with vandetanib is necessary, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation. Vandetanib can also prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; torsade de pointes (TdP) and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with fluvoxamine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QT interval and TdP has been reported during fluvoxamine postmarketing use.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as vandetanib. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. TdP and sudden death have also been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. If coadministration is necessary, an ECG and electrolyte concentration monitoring are needed, as well as more frequent monitoring of the QT interval. If QTcF is greater than 500 msec, interrupt vandetanib dosing until the QTcF is less than 450 msec; then, vandetanib may be resumed at a reduced dose.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with fosphenytoin due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with fostemsavir due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with gemifloxacin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with gemtuzumab due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, obtain a baseline ECG and electrolyte panel. Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with gilteritinib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with glasdegib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase frequency of ECG monitoring and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with goserelin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with granisetron due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Granisetron has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with haloperidol due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QT interval and TdP have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with histrelin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and hydroxyzine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibutilide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with ibutilide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Ibutilide administration can also cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with iloperidone due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Iloperidone has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with inotuzumab due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and electrolytes at baseline and periodically during treatment; correct any electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Inotuzumab has also been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Isoflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with itraconazole due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Itraconazole has also been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with ivosidenib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption of therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have also been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vandetanib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with clarithromycin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with lapatinib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and TdP have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with lefamulin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with vandetanib due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Leuprolide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with leuprolide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vandetanib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with lofexidine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Lofexidine also prolongs the QT interval.
Loperamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with loperamide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. At high doses, loperamide has also been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with loperamide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. At high doses, loperamide has also been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with vandetanib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Interrupt or dose reduce vandetanib if QT prolongation occurs. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; torsade de pointes (TdP) and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as vandetanib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP)-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Vandetanib can also prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with mefloquine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data, mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
Methadone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with methadone due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Methadone is also associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and TdP, especially at higher doses (greater than 200 mg/day, averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with midostaurin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QT interval was also reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with moxifloxacin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Quinolones have also been associated with a risk of QT prolongation; although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with nilotinib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Sudden death and QT interval prolongation have occurred in patients who received nilotinib therapy.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with olanzapine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may also be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with olanzapine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may also be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with olanzapine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may also be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with osilodrostat due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; torsade de pointes and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with vandetanib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of therapy or dose reduction for both drugs may be necessary for QT prolongation. Both osimertinib and vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have also been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with oxaliplatin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QT interval and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal TdP have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with ozanimod due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with paliperidone due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; TdP and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose.
Panobinostat: (Major) Coadministration of vandetanib with panobinostat is not recommended due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation QT prolongation has also been reported with panobinostat.
Pasireotide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with pasireotide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QT interval has also occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of vandetanib with pazopanib is not advised due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Pazopanib has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Pentamidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with pentamidine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Systemic pentamidine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Perphenazine: (Minor) If concomitant use of vandetanib with perphenazine is necessary, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) If concomitant use of vandetanib with perphenazine is necessary, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with phenobarbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with phenobarbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with phenytoin due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Coadministration of vandetanib with pimavanserin should generally be avoided due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Because of the potential for TdP, use of vandetanib with pimozide is contraindicated.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Vandetanib could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Vandetanib increased the plasma concentrations of metformin, which is transported by the renal organic cation transporter type 2 (OCT2). Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering vendetanib with metformin.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with pitolisant due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with ponesimod due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for signs and symptoms of infection; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Porfimer: (Major) Avoid coadministration of porfimer with vandetanib due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. All patients treated with porfimer will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like vandetanib may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with posaconazole due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of TdP.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with primidone due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Procainamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with procainamide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) If concomitant use of vandetanib with prochlorperazine is necessary, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with quinidine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Quinidine administration is also associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with quinine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Quinine has also been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with ranolazine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Both drugs can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with relugolix due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypokalemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with relugolix due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypokalemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with vandetanib due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both drugs have been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Sudden death and TdP have also been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with vandetanib due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both drugs have been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Sudden death and TdP have also been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with rifampin due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with rifampin decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with rifapentine due to the risk of decreased vandetanib exposure and reduced efficacy. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of vandetanib by 40%.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with rilpivirine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with risperidone due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with romidepsin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with saquinavir due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir also increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as TdP.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with selpercatinib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypokalemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and sertraline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of siponimod and vandetanib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; torsade de pointes and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Solifenacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with solifenacin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Both drugs can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Torsade de pointes TdP has also been reported with postmarketing use of solifenacin, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with sorafenib due to an increased risk of additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Sorafenib is also associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with St. Johns Wort due to unpredictably decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. Johns Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with sunitinib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Sunitinib can also prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with tacrolimus due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Tacrolimus also causes QT prolongation.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and tamoxifen increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with telavancin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with tetrabenazine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc).
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with vandetanib which, when combined with thioridazine, may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, and/or cause orthostatic hypotension.
Tolterodine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with tolterodine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Tolterodine has also been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with toremifene due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Both drugs can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) If concomitant use of vandetanib with trifluoperazine is necessary, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Trifluoperazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with triptorelin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with vemurafenib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Vemurafenib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with vandetanib is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like vandetanib may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vandetanib and voclosporin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, monitor ECGs and electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, and hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary is QT prolongation occurs. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with clarithromycin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with voriconazole due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Voriconazole has also been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP.
Vorinostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with vorinostat due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of vandetanib and ziprasidone is contraindicated because there is an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ziprasidone is contraindicated with any drugs that list QT prolongation as a pharmacodynamic effect when this effect has been described within the contraindications or bolded or boxed warnings of the official labeling for such drugs, which includes vandetanib. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner, and TdP and sudden death have been reported. Avoid drugs known to prolong the QT interval during vandetanib therapy.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, cardiac arrest, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; torsade de pointes, ventricular tachycardia, and sudden death have been reported in patients administered vandetanib. Do not start therapy in patients whose QTcF interval is greater than 450 msec; stop vandetanib in patients who develop a QTcF greater than 500 msec until the QTcF returns to less than 450 msec, resuming therapy at a reduced dose. Adverse events including QT prolongation may not fully resolve until 3 plasma half-lives of vandetanib; the half-life of vandetanib is 19 hours. Appropriate monitoring is needed. Obtain ECGs and serum potassium, calcium, magnesium, and TSH concentrations at baseline, at 2 to 4 weeks, and at 8 to 12 weeks after starting vandetanib and every 3 months thereafter; maintain potassium above 4 mEq/L (within normal limits) and other electrolytes within normal limits . Among 231 patients who received vandetanib 300 mg in a clinical trial, QT prolongation was reported in 14% (grade 3 or 4, 8%) compared with 1% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of those who received placebo. Using the Fridericia correction, 69% of vandetanib-treated patients had QT prolongation greater than 450 msec, and 7% had QTcF prolongation greater than 500 msec by ECG. The mean QTcF change from baseline was 35 msec for the 300 mg dose, and the QTcF remained above 30 msec for up to 2 years. A greater than 60 msec increase from baseline in QTcF was noted in 36% of vandetanib-treated patients. Hypocalcemia occurred in 11% to 57% (grade 3 or 4, 2% to 6%) and hypomagnesemia in 7% (grade 3 or 4, less than 1%). Causes of death included cardiac failure with arrhythmia exacerbation, sudden death, and cardiac arrest.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      torsade de pointes
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acneiform rash, alopecia, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, onycholysis, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, xerosis
    General Information
    Severe and sometimes fatal skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), have been reported with vandetanib. Permanently discontinue vandetanib if severe skin reactions occur and refer the patient for urgent medical evaluation; treatment with systemic corticosteroids may be necessary. Among 231 vandetanib recipients in a clinical trial, the following dermatologic reactions were reported more frequently compared with placebo (n = 99): rash (53% vs. 12%; grade 3 or 4, 5% vs. 0%), acneiform rash (35% vs. 7%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0%), xerosis (15% vs. 5%), pruritus (11% vs. 4%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0%), nail disorders (includes nail or nailbed infection, nailbed inflammation or tenderness, paronychia, onycholysis) (9% vs. 0%), and alopecia (8% vs. 0%). A photosensitivity reaction has been reported in 13% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of vandetanib-treated patients, and can occur up to 4 months after discontinuation of therapy. Rashes reported include erythematous rash, generalized rash, macular rash, maculopapular rash, papular rash, pruritic rash, exfoliative dermatitis, dermatitis bullous, generalized erythema, and eczema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      onycholysis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    fever, infection, laryngitis, pharyngitis, pneumonitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, tracheitis
    General Information
    Interstitial lung disease (ILD) or pneumonitis has been observed with vandetanib, including fatalities; consider a diagnosis of ILD in patients presenting with nonspecific respiratory signs and symptoms. Among 231 vandetanib recipients in a phase 3 clinical trial, mild (grade 1 or 2) upper respiratory tract infection (including laryngitis, (naso) pharyngitis, sinusitis, rhinitis, and tracheitis) was reported in 23% of patients, compared with 16% of those who received placebo (n = 99). Fever resulted in a discontinuation of therapy in 0.9% of vandetanib-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      laryngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tracheitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dysgeusia, headache, stroke
    General Information
    Ischemic cerebrovascular events such as ischemic stroke have been observed with vandetanib, and some cases have been fatal. Discontinue vandetanib in patients who experience a severe ischemic cerebrovascular event. The safety of resumption of vandetanib therapy after resolution of an ischemic cerebrovascular event has not been studied. Instruct patients to stop taking vandetanib and to immediately call their healthcare provider for stroke symptoms such as numbness or weakness of the face, arm or leg, especially on one side of the body; sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes; sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination; or sudden, severe headache. In the randomized medullary thyroid cancer study, ischemic cerebrovascular events were observed more frequently with vandetanib (1.3%) as compared with placebo (0%). Among 231 patients who received vandetanib in a phase 3 clinical trial, 26% reported headache (grade 3 or 4, 1%) and 8% reported dysgeusia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bleeding, GI bleeding, hematemesis, hemoptysis
    General Information
    Serious bleeding events, some of which were fatal, have been observed with vandetanib. Discontinue vandetanib in patients with severe hemorrhage. Also, do not administer vandetanib to patients with recent history of hemoptysis of 1/2-teaspoonful (2.5 mL) or more of red blood. In the randomized medullary thyroid cancer study, 14% of vandetanib recipients (n = 231) had grade 1 or 2 bleeding events as compared with 7% of placebo recipients (n = 99). Be alert for serious bleeding events including hematemesis or GI bleeding.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemoptysis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematemesis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    colitis, diarrhea, GI perforation
    General Information
    Diarrhea and/or colitis were reported in 57% (grade 3 or 4, 11%) of patients treated with vandetanib in a phase 3 clinical trial (n = 231), compared with 27% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of those who received placebo (n = 99). Additionally, GI perforation occurred in 0.4% of vandetanib-treated patients and was not reported with placebo. In patients who develop diarrhea or colitis, carefully monitor serum electrolytes and ECGs as electrolyte disturbances may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Stop vandetanib for severe (grade 3 or higher) diarrhea, resuming at a lower dose once diarrhea resolves or improves to CTCAE grade 1. Diarrhea may not fully resolve for 3 half-lives of vandetanib; the half-life of vandetanib 19 days.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI perforation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression, hypothyroidism
    General Information
    Worsening hypothyroidism may occur with vandetanib. Obtain TSH at baseline, at 2 to 4 weeks, and at 8 to 12 weeks after starting vandetanib and every 3 months thereafter. If signs or symptoms of hypothyroidism occur, examine thyroid hormone concentrations and adjust thyroid replacement therapy accordingly. Among patients who largely had prior thyroidectomy (90%), about half (49%) of vandetanib recipients required increases in the dose of the thyroid replacement therapy as compared with 17% of placebo recipients in one clinical trial (n = 231). Additionally, hypothyroidism (grade 1 or 2, 6%), fatigue (all grade, 24%; grade 3 or 4, 6%), and depression (all grade, 10%; grade 3 or 4, 2%) were reported.
    Headline
    heart failure
    General Information
    Heart failure has been observed with vandetanib and some cases have been fatal. Monitor for signs and symptoms of heart failure. Vandetanib discontinuation may be necessary in patients with heart failure; heart failure may not be reversible upon stopping vandetanib. Do not give vandetanib to patients who have uncompensated heart failure. Vandetanib has not been studied in patients with ventricular arrhythmias or recent myocardial infarction. Heart failure was noted in 0.9% of vandetanib recipients as compared with 0% of placebo recipients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypertension, hypertensive crisis
    General Information
    Vandetanib may cause hypertension, which may be severe. Monitor all patients for hypertension; a vandetanib dose reduction or interruption may be necessary. If high blood pressure cannot be controlled, do not restart vandetanib. Among 231 patients who received vandetanib in a clinical trial, 33% had hypertension, some with hypertensive crisis or accelerated hypertension (grade 3 or 4, 9%) compared with 5% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of those who received placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertensive crisis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    leukoencephalopathy
    General Information
    Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS), a syndrome of subcortical vasogenic edema diagnosed by an MRI of the brain, has been observed with vandetanib. Consider RPLS in any patient presenting with seizures, headache, visual disturbances, confusion, or altered mental function. Instruct patients to contact their physician promptly if they experience seizures, headaches, visual disturbances, confusion, or difficulty thinking. Discontinue vandetanib if RPLS develops. In clinical studies, three of four patients who developed RPLS while taking vandetanib also had hypertension.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukoencephalopathy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, dyspepsia, nausea, pancreatitis, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    In a phase 3 clinical trial of patients with locally advanced or metastatic medullary thyroid cancer, those treated with vandetanib (n = 231) reported the following gastrointestinal adverse reactions more frequently compared with placebo (n = 99): nausea (33% vs. 16%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0%), anorexia (21% vs. 12%; grade 3 or 4, 4% vs. 0%), abdominal pain (21% vs. 11%; grade 3 or 4, 3% vs. 0%), vomiting (15% vs. 7%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0%), dyspepsia (11% vs. 4%), and xerostomia (9% vs. 3%). Additionally, pancreatitis occurred in 0.4% of patients who received vandetanib and was not reported in those who received placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacification, keratopathy, visual impairment
    General Information
    Corneal opacities (vortex keratopathies), which can lead to halos and decreased visual acuity or visual impairment, were revealed by scheduled slit lamp examinations during clinical trials. Ophthalmologic examination including slit lamp is recommended for patients who report visual changes. Instruct patients to not drive or operate machinery if blurred vision develops. Among 231 vandetanib recipients in a phase 3 clinical trial, 9% had blurred vision and 13% developed a corneal abnormality (including corneal edema, corneal opacification, corneal deposits, keratopathy, corneal pigmentation, arcus lipoides, and acquired corneal dystrophy), compared with 1% and 1% of those who received placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      corneal opacification
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      corneal deposits
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      corneal edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      keratopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    proteinuria
    General Information
    Proteinuria occurred in 10% of 231 vandetanib recipients compared to 2% of placebo recipients in clinical trials. Grade 1 or 2 increases in serum creatinine were also noted in 16% of patients who received vandetanib compared to 1% of those who received placebo; this may be explained by the apparent inhibition of the renal excretion of creatinine by vandetanib. Vandetanib inhibits the uptake of the selective OCT2 marker substrate 14-C-creatinine at a mean inhibitory concentration (IC50) of approximately 2.1 mcg/mL, which is higher than the vandetanib plasma concentration of 0.81 mcg/mL obtained after multiple dosing with 300 mg.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Vandetanib may be associated with hematologic adverse reactions. In a phase 3 clinical trial, neutropenia (10% vs. 5%; grade 3 or 4, less than 1% vs. 2%) and thrombocytopenia (9% vs. 3%) occurred more often in patients treated with vandetanib (n = 231) compared with those who received placebo (n = 99).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Grade 1 or 2 hypoglycemia was reported in 24% of patients treated with vandetanib (n = 231) compared with 7% of those who received placebo (n = 99) in a phase 3 clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    In a phase 3 clinical trial, elevated hepatic enzymes (increased ALT) were reported in 51% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of patients treated with vandetanib (n = 231) compared with 19% of those who received placebo; no patient with a grade 3 or higher elevation in ALT had concomitant hyperbilirubinemia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    In a phase 3 clinical trial, muscle spasms were reported in 6% of patients treated with vandetanib (n = 231) compared with 1% of those who received placebo (n = 99). Additionally, fatigue was more severe in patients who received vandetanib therapy (24% vs. 23%; grade 3 or 4, 6% vs. 1%). Asthenia resulted in a discontinuation of therapy in 1.7% of vandetanib-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    aortic dissection
    General Information
    Arterial (including aortic) aneurysms, dissections (aortic dissection), and rupture have occurred in postmarketing experience with vandetanib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      aortic dissection
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    osteonecrosis
    General Information
    Osteonecrosis, including osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ), has occurred during treatment with vandetanib. The risk of ONJ may be increased with concomitant exposure to other risk factors including bisphosphonates, denosumab, dental disease, or invasive dental procedures. Perform an oral exam prior to and periodically during treatment with vandetanib. Maintain good oral hygiene during treatment with avoidance of invasive dental procedures, especially in patients at higher risk for osteonecrosis. Hold vandetanib for at least 1 month prior to scheduled dental surgery or invasive dental procedures; permanently discontinue vandetanib if ONJ develops.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      osteonecrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal data, vandetanib may cause male and female infertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Vandetanib is a kinase inhibitor that is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive medullary thyroid cancer in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease. In vitro, vandetanib inhibits new blood vessel formation and epidermal growth factor receptor-dependent cell survival. The drug exhibits a long elimination half-life (19 days) and can prolong the QT interval.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Vandetanib is a kinase inhibitor. In vitro, vandetanib inhibits the activity of tyrosine kinases including members of the epidermal growth factor receptor family (EGFR), vascular endothelial cell growth factor receptors (VEGF), rearranged during transfection (RET), protein tyrosine kinase 6 (BRK), TIE2, members of the EPH receptors kinase family, and members of the Src family of tyrosine kinases. Vandetanib inhibits endothelial cell migration, proliferation, survival, and new blood vessel formation in in vitro models of angiogenesis. Vandetanib also inhibits EGFR-dependent cell survival in vitro. Vandetanib inhibits epidermal growth factor-stimulated receptor tyrosine kinase phosphorylation in tumor cells and endothelial cells and VEGF-stimulated tyrosine kinase phosphorylation in endothelial cells. In vivo, vandetanib reduced tumor cell-induced angiogenesis, tumor vessel permeability, and inhibited tumor growth and metastasis in mouse models of cancer.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Absorption of oral vandetanib is slow; peak plasma concentrations are typically achieved at a median of 6 hours (range, 4 to 10 hours) after dosing. Accumulation of vandetanib of approximately 8-fold occurs with multiple dosing. Steady-state concentrations are achieved at approximately 3 months. Exposure to vandetanib is unaffected by food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    After a single 800 mg vandetanib dose, comparable mean systemic exposure and clearance values were obtained from patients with mild (n = 8), moderate (n = 7), or severe (n = 6) hepatic impairment as compared with patients with normal hepatic function (n = 5). Limited data are available regarding use in patients with a serum bilirubin greater than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal. Use of vandetanib is not recommended for patients with either moderate or severe hepatic impairment, as safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    After a single 800 mg vandetanib dose, comparable mean systemic exposure and clearance values were obtained from patients with mild renal impairment (n = 6) as compared with patients with normal renal function (n = 10). Average systemic exposure increased by 39% for patients with moderate renal impairment (n = 8) and by 41% for patients with severe renal impairment (n = 6). A reduced vandetanib dose is needed for patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (see Dosage).
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of vandetanib have not been evaluated in pediatric patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No relationship was apparent between oral clearance of vandetanib and patient age. No adjustment in starting dose is required for patients over 65 years of age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No relationship was apparent between oral clearance of vandetanib and patient gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Based on a cross-study comparison, Japanese patients (n = 3) and Chinese patients (n = 7) had average exposures that were higher than Caucasian patients (n = 7) receiving the same vandetanib dose. Exact exposure differences were not reported.
  Text
  Vandetanib is administered orally. In vitro, vandetanib is approximately 90% bound to human serum albumin and alpha-1-acid-glycoprotein; in ex vivo plasma samples from colorectal cancer patients receiving vandetanib at steady-state, mean protein binding was 94%.The volume of distribution (Vd) is approximately 7,450 L. In a pharmacokinetic analysis, 2 metabolites were detected in plasma. N-desmethyl-vandetanib is primarily produced by CYP3A4, circulates at concentrations of approximately 7% to 17.1% of those of vandetanib, and exhibits similar inhibitory activity as the parent drug at the VEGF- (KDR and Flt-1) and EGFR-receptors. Vandetanib-N-oxide is primarily produced by flavin-containing monooxygenase enzymes FMO1 and FMO3 and circulates at concentrations of approximately 1.4% to 2.2% of those of vandetanib. After a single dose of vandetanib, approximately 69% was recovered with 44% in feces and 25% in urine within 21 days after the dose. Excretion was slow (mean clearance of approximately 13.2 L/hour), and further excretion beyond 21 days is expected based on the plasma half-life of 19 days.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, OCT2, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
N-desmethyl-vandetanib, an active metabolite of vandetanib that makes up approximately 7% to 17.1% of vandetanib exposure, is formed by CYP3A4. Strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided during vandetanib therapy, as concomitant use with rifampicin decreased vandetanib plasma concentrations. Additionally, vandetanib has increased plasma concentrations of metformin (OCT2 substrate) and digoxin (P-gp substrate).

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
Avoid direct contact of crushed tablets with skin or mucous membranes. If such contact occurs, wash the area thoroughly.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.]
Patient Counseling
Vandetanib is associated with photosensitivity. Patients should be advised to avoid sunlight (UV) exposure, and to wear protective clothing, use a broad spectrum UVA/UVB sunscreen, and wear protective lip balm (SPF greater than or equal to 50) when outdoors while on treatment and for up to 4 months after the last dose.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Vandetanib tablets may be administered with or without food. Do not crush the tablets or handle crushed or broken tablets. If whole tablets cannot be swallowed, disperse the tablets in a glass that contains 2 ounces of noncarbonated water. Stir for approximately 10 minutes until dispersed; the tablet will not completely dissolve. Immediately administer the dispersion. Add an additional 4 ounces of noncarbonated water to the glass to remove any residues in the glass; immediately administer the water to ensure that the full dose is received. The dispersion may also be administered through a nasogastric (NG) or gastrostomy tube.
Do not administer a missed dose if it is less than 12 hours before the next dose is due.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    300 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    300 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment:
NOTE: Limited data are available regarding use in patients with serum bilirubin greater than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal.
Mild impairment (Child-Pugh class A, total score of 5 or 6): No dose adjustment needed.
Moderate to severe impairment (Child-Pugh class B or C, total score of 7 or higher): Not recommended for use; safety and efficacy have not been established.
  Renal Impairment
  Baseline Renal Impairment:
CrCl greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 30 to 49 mL/minute: Reduce vandetanib starting dose to 200 mg and closely monitor QT interval.
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute: Vandetanib treatment is not recommended.
End-stage renal disease requiring dialysis: Dosing information is not available.
