=== Atomoxetine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2730)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Atomoxetine is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI) and was the first nonstimulant drug approved for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 100 mg/day PO for ADHD; 36 mg/day PO has been suggested for neurogenic orthostatic hypotension.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): abnormal dreams, asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, insomnia, tremor, agitation, anxiety, depression, emotional lability, hallucinations, hostility, irritability, mania, psychosis, restlessness, suicidal ideation, headache, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, dysgeusia, dysmenorrhea, dysuria, increased urinary frequency, menstrual irregularity, pelvic pain, prostatitis, testicular pain, urinary retention, urinary urgency

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pheochromocytoma Atomoxetine is contraindicated in individuals with pheochromocytoma or a history of pheochromocytoma, as serious reactions (including increased blood pressure and...

ATOMOXETINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Atoncy, Strattera

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)

Oral dosage
Adults 18 to 64 years


40 mg PO once daily in the morning or 20 mg PO twice daily, initially. After at least 3 days, increase the dose to 80 mg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses. May increase the dose to 100 mg/day if optimal response has not been achieved after an additional 2 to 4 weeks. Max: 100 mg/day. For poor CYP2D6 metabolizers, only increase the dose to 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing more than 70 kg


40 mg PO once daily in the morning or 20 mg PO twice daily, initially. After at least 3 days, increase the dose to 80 mg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses. May increase the dose to 100 mg/day if optimal response has not been achieved after an additional 2 to 4 weeks. Max: 100 mg/day. For poor CYP2D6 metabolizers, only increase the dose to 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing 70 kg or less


0.5 mg/kg/dose PO once daily in the morning or 0.25 mg/kg/dose PO twice daily, initially. After at least 3 days, may increase the dose to 1.2 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses. Max: 1.4 mg/kg/day or 100 mg/day, whichever is less. For poor CYP2D6 metabolizers, only increase the dose to 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. No additional benefit has been demonstrated for doses higher than 1.2 mg/kg/day.


For the treatment of neurogenic orthostatic hypotension†

Oral dosage
Adults


10 to 18 mg PO twice daily. Alternatively, 18 mg PO once daily has been used.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pheochromocytoma


Atomoxetine is contraindicated in individuals with pheochromocytoma or a history of pheochromocytoma, as serious reactions (including increased blood pressure and tachyarrhythmia) and the potential risk for a prolonged QT interval have been reported during use.


Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, CYP2D6 poor metabolizer, hepatic failure


Atomoxetine is extensively metabolized in the liver to an active metabolite; exposure is increased in individuals with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) to severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, hepatic failure, and in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Dosing adjustment is recommended in these individuals. Rare cases of severe drug-induced liver injury (hepatotoxicity) causally associated with atomoxetine have been reported postmarketing; in these cases, most individuals recovered with normal liver function after stopping the medication. Routine liver function tests are not a standard recommendation during atomoxetine treatment; hepatotoxicity is unpredictable and rare. Individuals should be informed of the signs and symptoms of liver toxicity and to notify their health care provider immediately if they notice such effects. Discontinue atomoxetine in individuals who exhibit jaundice (yellowing of the skin or the whites of the eyes) or laboratory evidence of hepatic failure or liver injury; do not restart atomoxetine. Perform laboratory testing to determine liver enzyme concentrations at the first symptom or sign of liver dysfunction (e.g., pruritus, dark urine, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, or unexplained flu-like symptoms).


closed-angle glaucoma


The use of atomoxetine is contraindicated in individuals with narrow angle glaucoma (closed-angle glaucoma). In clinical trials, atomoxetine use was associated with an increased risk for mydriasis.


cardiovascular disease, family history of sudden cardiac death


Atomoxetine is contraindicated for use in individuals who have severe cardiac or vascular conditions that could deteriorate with significant increases in blood pressure (15 to 20 mmHg) or heart rate (20 beats per minute), such as symptomatic or uncontrolled cardiac disease, advanced arteriosclerosis, symptomatic heart failure, cardiomyopathy, severe coronary artery disease, severe hypertension, serious cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., ventricular arrhythmias), structural cardiac abnormalities, or ventricular dysfunction. Use with caution in individuals who have conditions that could be worsened by increased blood pressure or heart rate, such as controlled or mild hypertension, tachycardia, cardiac-related diseases, or cerebrovascular disease. There is a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP) with use. Measure pulse and blood pressure at baseline, after dosage increases, and periodically throughout therapy. In individuals receiving standard doses of atomoxetine, sudden death has occurred in adults and has been associated with use in pediatric and adolescent patients who have structural congenital heart disease or other serious heart conditions; myocardial infarction and stroke have also occurred in adults. However, a large retrospective cohort study including over 1.2 million pediatric patients and young adults aged 2 to 24 years did not find an increased risk of serious cardiovascular events in current users of ADHD medication compared to nonusers (adjusted hazard ratio 0.75; 95% CI 0.31 to 1.85). Similar results were seen when current users of ADHD drugs were compared to former users and when current users with severe underlying cardiovascular disease were included in the analysis. The authors concluded that although the absolute magnitude of risk appears to be low, a modest increase in risk could not be ruled out. The American Heart Association (AHA) states that it is reasonable to consider using ADHD medications in pediatric patients who have congenital heart disease without current hemodynamic or arrhythmic concerns, or congenital heart disease that is considered stable by the patient's pediatric cardiologist, unless the cardiologist has specific concerns. Monitor closely and consider discontinuing treatment in individuals who develop: heart condition associated with sudden cardiac death (SCD); arrhythmia requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitation; direct current cardioversion or defibrillation, or overdrive pacing; arrhythmia associated with SCD; any clinically significant arrhythmia that is not treated or controlled; QTc on electrocardiogram (ECG) longer than 0.46 sec; or heart rate or blood pressure more than 2 standard deviations above the mean for age. When considering ADHD medications, carefully evaluate the medical history (including family history of sudden cardiac death or ventricular arrhythmia) and perform a physical exam to assess for the presence of cardiac disease. In any patient with suspected cardiac disease, further evaluation including an ECG and echocardiogram is warranted. The AHA states that obtaining a baseline ECG as a part of the initial evaluation is reasonable for pediatric patients. Consult a pediatric cardiologist before initiating medication in a child or adolescent who has any significant findings on physical examination, ECG, or family history. Once the medication is started, a repeat ECG may be helpful if the original ECG was obtained before the child was 12 years old, if cardiac symptoms develop, or if there is a change in family history.


mood disorder


Before initiating treatment with atomoxetine, individuals should be adequately screened for risk factors for bipolar disorder such as a personal or family history of mood disorder, mania, and depression. Individuals with bipolar disorder or risk factors for bipolar disorder may be at increased risk of developing mania or mixed episodes during treatment with atomoxetine. It may not be possible to determine whether a manic or mixed episode that appears during treatment with atomoxetine is due to an adverse reaction to atomoxetine or a patient's underlying bipolar disorder. Individuals should also be monitored for the appearance or worsening of aggressive behavior or hostility, as there is evidence that atomoxetine may cause these behaviors during treatment. ADHD and other mental illnesses can be associated with irritability, which can make it difficult to determine if the drug or the underlying psychiatric condition is causing these symptoms. If such symptoms occur during treatment, consider a possible causal role of atomoxetine. Psychotic or manic symptoms (e.g., hallucinations, delusional thinking, psychosis, or mania) in individuals without a prior history of psychotic disorder or mania may also be caused by atomoxetine at usual doses; if such symptoms occur, consider discontinuing atomoxetine.


suicidal ideation


Atomoxetine is not approved for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). Atomoxetine increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children and adolescents in short-term studies; the risk appears to be the greatest early in treatment. Co-morbidities occurring with ADHD may increase the risk of suicidal ideation and/or behavior. Monitor all pediatric patients receiving atomoxetine closely for clinical worsening, suicidal ideation, and unusual behavioral changes, such as anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia, hypomania, and mania, especially during the first few months of therapy and after any dosage adjustment. Instruct caregivers and patients to immediately notify the prescriber of changes in behavior or suicidal ideation. Consider changing the therapeutic regimen or discontinuing the medication in individuals with persistent or worrisome symptoms, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. In clinical trials, all reactions occurred in children 12 years and younger and within the first month of therapy. No suicides occurred in these trials. It is unknown whether the risk of suicidal ideation in pediatric patients extends to longer-term use.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Individuals should be instructed to use caution when driving or operating machinery or doing activities requiring coordination and concentration until they are reasonably certain that their performance is not affected by atomoxetine.


bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation


Use atomoxetine with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk.


pregnancy


Available data on the use of atomoxetine during human pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. According to one brief correspondence, 3 pregnancies occurred during adult clinical trials of atomoxetine, with 2 pregnancies resulting in healthy neonates, and 1 unknown outcome because the patient was lost to follow-up. Some animal studies have described adverse fetal outcomes. In 1 of 3 studies of pregnant rabbits dosed during organogenesis, decreased live fetuses, an increase in early resorptions, and a slight increase in the incidences of atypical origin of the carotid artery and absent subclavian artery were observed at plasma concentrations 3 and 0.4 times the human concentrations in extensive and poor metabolizers receiving the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively. In rats dosed prior to mating and during organogenesis, a decrease in fetal weight (female only) and an increase in the incidence of incomplete ossification of the vertebral arch were observed at a dose approximately 5 times the MRHD based on BSA. In 1 of 2 studies in which rats were given atomoxetine prior to mating through organogenesis and lactation, decreased pup weight and decreased pup survival were observed at doses corresponding to 5 to 6 times the MRHD based on BSA. No adverse fetal effects were observed in rats exposed to atomoxetine during organogenesis at doses up to 17 times the MRHD based on BSA. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in people exposed to ADHD medications, including atomoxetine, during pregnancy. Care teams are encouraged to register patients by calling 1-866-961-2388 or by visiting https://womensmentalhealth.org/adhd-medications/.


breast-feeding


Use atomoxetine with caution during breast-feeding. Atomoxetine is present in human milk in small amounts, with a relative infant dose (RID) of 0.18% to 0.52%. Data on the effects of atomoxetine on milk production are not available. Infant agitation and inconsolability have been reported in breastfed children exposed to atomoxetine; however, no serious adverse effects have been reported. Monitor the breastfed child for potential adverse effects, including poor feeding, irritability, or changes in sleep patterns. Methylphenidate may be considered an alternative to other ADHD medications during breast-feeding because of its low excretion into human milk; however, the medical use of stimulant medications during breast-feeding has not been formally evaluated.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data on the use of atomoxetine during human pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. According to one brief correspondence, 3 pregnancies occurred during adult clinical trials of atomoxetine, with 2 pregnancies resulting in healthy neonates, and 1 unknown outcome because the patient was lost to follow-up. Some animal studies have described adverse fetal outcomes. In 1 of 3 studies of pregnant rabbits dosed during organogenesis, decreased live fetuses, an increase in early resorptions, and a slight increase in the incidences of atypical origin of the carotid artery and absent subclavian artery were observed at plasma concentrations 3 and 0.4 times the human concentrations in extensive and poor metabolizers receiving the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively. In rats dosed prior to mating and during organogenesis, a decrease in fetal weight (female only) and an increase in the incidence of incomplete ossification of the vertebral arch were observed at a dose approximately 5 times the MRHD based on BSA. In 1 of 2 studies in which rats were given atomoxetine prior to mating through organogenesis and lactation, decreased pup weight and decreased pup survival were observed at doses corresponding to 5 to 6 times the MRHD based on BSA. No adverse fetal effects were observed in rats exposed to atomoxetine during organogenesis at doses up to 17 times the MRHD based on BSA. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in people exposed to ADHD medications, including atomoxetine, during pregnancy. Care teams are encouraged to register patients by calling 1-866-961-2388 or by visiting https://womensmentalhealth.org/adhd-medications/.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Albuterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with atomoxetine. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes have been reported in patients receiving clofazimine in combination with QT prolonging medications. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and atomoxetine use. Because of possible effects on blood pressure, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with other drugs that affect blood pressure, such as amphetamine; dextroamphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and atomoxetine use. Because of possible effects on blood pressure, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with other drugs that affect blood pressure, such as amphetamine; dextroamphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and atomoxetine use. Because of possible effects on blood pressure, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with other drugs that affect blood pressure, such as amphetamine; dextroamphetamine.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and anagrelide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arformoterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Both atomoxetine and artemether; lumefantrine are considered drugs with a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP); therefore, the combination should be used cautiously and with close monitoring. In addition, atomoxetine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 and lumefantrine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs), atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, insomnia, and cardiac effects (e.g., hypertension, increased pulse rate, QT prolongation).
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant epinephrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of asenapine and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of atomoxetine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, hypertension, and other cardiac adverse events, is recommended during coadministration and dosage adjustments for atomoxetine may be warranted. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Atropine: (Major) Atropine and atomoxetine should be combined cautiously in patients with known cardiac disease. Atropine or scopolamine may alter the heart rate; the predominant clinical effect is sinus tachycardia. An additive effect on heart rate may occur as atomoxetine may elevate heart rate as well as blood pressure.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Atropine and atomoxetine should be combined cautiously in patients with known cardiac disease. Atropine or scopolamine may alter the heart rate; the predominant clinical effect is sinus tachycardia. An additive effect on heart rate may occur as atomoxetine may elevate heart rate as well as blood pressure.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of azithromycin and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bedaquiline: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Atomoxetine is considered a drug with a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with atomoxetine include bedaquiline.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure; atomoxetine has been reported to also increase blood pressure and heart rate, probably via inhibition of norepinephrine reuptake. Due to an additive pharmacodynamic effect, amphetamines and atomoxetine should be used together cautiously, particularly in patients with a history of cardiac disease. Consider monitoring heart rate and blood pressure at baseline and regularly throughout treatment if these agents must be used together.
Beta-agonists: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant epinephrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
buPROPion: (Major) Dosage reduction of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving bupropion due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving bupropion, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving bupropion, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. Bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) Dosage reduction of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving bupropion due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving bupropion, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving bupropion, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. Bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with atomoxetine if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine as well as following overdose.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with atomoxetine due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and ciprofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and atomoxetine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
clomiPRAMINE: (Minor) Atomoxetine should be used cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) such as clomipramine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Tricyclic antidepressants share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and clozapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of atomoxetine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, hypertension, and other cardiac adverse events, is recommended during coadministration and dosage adjustments for atomoxetine may be warranted. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with atomoxetine due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has also occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine as well as following overdose.
Dacomitinib: (Major) A lower initial dose of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving dacomitinib due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving dacomitinib, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving dacomitinib, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. Monitor for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, insomnia, and cardiac effects (e.g., hypertension, increased pulse rate, QT prolongation). Dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure.
Darunavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of atomoxetine may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, hypertension, and other cardiac adverse events, is recommended during coadministration and dosage adjustments for atomoxetine may be warranted. Darunavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of atomoxetine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, hypertension, and other cardiac adverse events, is recommended during coadministration and dosage adjustments for atomoxetine may be warranted. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of atomoxetine may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, hypertension, and other cardiac adverse events, is recommended during coadministration and dosage adjustments for atomoxetine may be warranted. Darunavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of atomoxetine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, hypertension, and other cardiac adverse events, is recommended during coadministration and dosage adjustments for atomoxetine may be warranted. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of atomoxetine may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, hypertension, and other cardiac adverse events, is recommended during coadministration and dosage adjustments for atomoxetine may be warranted. Darunavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and dasatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desipramine: (Minor) Atomoxetine should be used cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) such as desipramine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Tricyclic antidepressants share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Desvenlafaxine: (Major) Desvenlafaxine is a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) and atomoxetine selectively inhibits norepinephrine reuptake; the drugs have some additive pharmacology that may lead to increases in blood pressure or heart rate. Although clinical studies have shown that desvenlafaxine does not have a clinically relevant effect on CYP2D6 inhibition at doses of 100 mg/day, the manufacturer of desvenlafaxine recommends that the dose of primary substrates of CYP2D6, such as atomoxetine, be reduced by up to one-half if co-administered with desvenlafaxine 400 mg/day. Monitor for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, insomnia, and cardiac effects (e.g., hypertension, increased pulse rate, QT prolongation) during concurrent use.
Deutetrabenazine: (Minor) The risk of QT prolongation may be increased with coadministration of deutetrabenazine and atomoxetine. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and atomoxetine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and atomoxetine use. Because of possible effects on blood pressure, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with other drugs that affect blood pressure, such as amphetamine; dextroamphetamine.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) Dosage reduction of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving bupropion due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving bupropion, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving bupropion, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. Bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) If possible, quinidine should be avoided in patients receiving atomoxetine. Coadministration of quinidine with atomoxetine may result in additive QT prolongation and increased exposure to atomoxetine. When administered as quinidine; dextromethorphan, coadministration with atomoxetine is contraindicated. Quinidine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving quinidine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving quinidine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Atomoxetine, an inhibitor of norepinephrine reuptake used for treatment of ADHD, has been shown to increase heart rate and blood pressure. Diethylpropion also inhibits norepinephrine reuptake. The combination of atomoxetine with diethylpropion should be used extremely cautiously, if at all, due to the potential for serious increases in blood pressure and/or heart rate. If these agents must be used concomitantly, consider monitoring blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly throughout treatment.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Atropine and atomoxetine should be combined cautiously in patients with known cardiac disease. Atropine or scopolamine may alter the heart rate; the predominant clinical effect is sinus tachycardia. An additive effect on heart rate may occur as atomoxetine may elevate heart rate as well as blood pressure.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of disopyramide and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
DOBUTamine: (Major) Due to the potential for increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with drugs with sympathomimetic activity, including dobutamine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if sympathomimetics are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
DOPamine: (Major) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors, such as dopamine. Consider monitoring the patients blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Doxepin: (Minor) Atomoxetine should be used cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) such as doxepin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Tricyclic antidepressants share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone and atomoxetine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Atomoxetine is considered a drug with a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with atomoxetine include droperidol.
Droxidopa: (Major) Due to the potential for increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as droxidopa. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Edoxaban: (Major) Coadministration of edoxaban with other drugs that affect hemostasis, such as selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), increases the risk of bleeding. If these drugs are administered together, instruct patients to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding, and to promptly report any bleeding events to their practitioner.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and eliglustat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of atomoxetine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, hypertension, and other cardiac adverse events, is recommended during coadministration and dosage adjustments for atomoxetine may be warranted. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of atomoxetine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, hypertension, and other cardiac adverse events, is recommended during coadministration and dosage adjustments for atomoxetine may be warranted. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Encorafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of encorafenib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of entrectinib with atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Due to the potential for increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with drugs with significant vasopressor effects like ephedrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Due to the potential for increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with drugs with significant vasopressor effects like ephedrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant epinephrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and escitalopram may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Etrasimod: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of etrasimod and atomoxetine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and fingolimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and fluconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation and increased atomoxetine-related adverse effects during coadministration with fluoxetine. Dosage reduction of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving fluoxetine due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving fluoxetine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving fluoxetine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. Fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Use caution if atomoxetine is administered with fluphenazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Fluphenazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
fluvoxaMINE: (Minor) Coadminister atomoxetine and fluvoxamine with caution as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of these medications. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during post-marketing use of fluvoxamine.
Formoterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and gemifloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and gemtuzumab ozogamicin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Givosiran: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of givosiran and atomoxetine due to the risk of increased atomoxetine-related adverse reactions. If use is necessary, consider reducing the atomoxetine dose. Atomoxetine is a sensitive CYP2D6 substrate. Givosiran may moderately reduce hepatic CYP2D6 enzyme activity because of its pharmacological effects on the hepatic heme biosynthesis pathway.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with atomoxetine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and granisetron may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and haloperidol may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and hydroxyzine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of ibutilide and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of iloperidone and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Imatinib: (Major) Administer atomoxetine and imatinib, STI-571 with caution. Because atomoxetine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6, concurrent use of strong CYP2D6 inhibitors such as imatinib may theoretically increase the risk of atomoxetine-induced adverse effects. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs), atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, insomnia, and cardiac effects (e.g., hypertension, increased pulse rate, QT prolongation) during concurrent use.
Imipramine: (Minor) Atomoxetine should be used cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) such as imipramine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Tricyclic antidepressants share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with atomoxetine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and itraconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with atomoxetine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and atomoxetine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation has been reported postmarketing with atomoxetine; ketoconazole is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and lapatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with atomoxetine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of lenvatinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levalbuterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and atomoxetine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation has been reported postmarketing with atomoxetine; ketoconazole is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Levomilnacipran is a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) and atomoxetine selectively inhibits norepinephrine reuptake; the drugs have some additive pharmacology that may lead to increases in blood pressure or heart rate.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant epinephrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Linezolid: (Major) Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a reversible, non-selective MAO inhibitor. Atomoxetine should not be taken with any MAOI, or within 2 weeks after discontinuing a MAOI and vice versa. Atomoxetine, a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is contraindicated with the use of any MAOI due to the potential for serious reactions. Clinically, the potential for interaction between linezolid and atomoxetine has not been studied.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and lithium may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and lofexidine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Concomitant use of lopinavir and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as atomoxetine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Mavorixafor: (Major) A dosage reduction of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving mavorixafor due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving mavorixafor, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents more than 70 kg and adults receiving mavorixafor, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and mefloquine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Metaproterenol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of methadone and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Methamphetamine: (Major) Due to the potential for increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with drugs with sympathomimetic activity such as methamphetamine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if sympathomimetics are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Methscopolamine and atomoxetine should be combined cautiously in patients with known cardiac disease. Methscopolamine may alter the heart rate; the predominant clinical effect is sinus tachycardia. An additive effect on heart rate may occur as atomoxetine may elevate heart rate as well as blood pressure.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midodrine: (Major) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as midodrine. Consider monitoring the patients blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Because atomoxetine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6, concurrent use of CYP2D6 inhibitors such as mirabegron may theoretically increase the risk of atomoxetine-induced adverse effects. Monitor for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, insomnia, and cardiac effects (e.g., hypertension, QT prolongation).
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and mirtazapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of moxifloxacin and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, insomnia, and cardiac effects (e.g., hypertension, increased pulse rate, QT prolongation) if concurrent use of nicardipine and atomoxetine is necessary. Because atomoxetine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6, concurrent use of CYP2D6 inhibitors such as nicardipine may theoretically increase the risk of atomoxetine-induced adverse effects.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and nilotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nitroglycerin: (Minor) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antidepressants. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin is used concurrently with antidepressants.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as norepinephrine. Consider monitoring blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Nortriptyline: (Minor) Atomoxetine should be used cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) such as nortriptyline as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Tricyclic antidepressants share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation and increased atomoxetine-related adverse effects during coadministration with fluoxetine. Dosage reduction of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving fluoxetine due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving fluoxetine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving fluoxetine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. Fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure. (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Olodaterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Atomoxetine is metabolized by CYP2D6; oritavancin is a weak CYP2D6 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of atomoxetine may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of osimertinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of oxaliplatin and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of ozanimod and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of paliperidone and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Panobinostat: (Major) The co-administration of panobinostat and atomoxetine is not recommended. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of atomoxetine toxicity. Panobinostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine is a CYP2D6-sensitive substrate. When a single-dose of a CYP2D6-sensitive substrate was administered after 3 doses of panobinostat (20 mg given on days 3, 5, and 8), the CYP2D6 substrate Cmax increased by 20% to 200% and the AUC value increased by 20% to 130% in 14 patients with advanced cancer; exposure was highly variable (coefficient of variance > 150%).
PARoxetine: (Major) Dosage reduction of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving paroxetine due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving paroxetine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving paroxetine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well-tolerated. Paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of pazopanib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to atomoxetine if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of pentamidine and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Use caution when administering atomoxetine with perphenazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Additionally, perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Use caution when administering atomoxetine with perphenazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Additionally, perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Due to the potential for increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with drugs with sympathomimetic activity such as phendimetrazine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if sympathomimetics are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Atropine and atomoxetine should be combined cautiously in patients with known cardiac disease. Atropine or scopolamine may alter the heart rate; the predominant clinical effect is sinus tachycardia. An additive effect on heart rate may occur as atomoxetine may elevate heart rate as well as blood pressure. (Moderate) Scopolamine and atomoxetine should be combined cautiously in patients with known cardiac disease. Scopolamine may alter the heart rate; the predominant clinical effect is sinus tachycardia. An additive effect on heart rate may occur as atomoxetine may elevate heart rate as well as blood pressure.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant phentermine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant phentermine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and atomoxetine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking atomoxetine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and posaconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant epinephrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of procainamide and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Procarbazine: (Contraindicated) Procarbazine is a weak monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI). The use of atomoxetine with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. Atomoxetine should not be taken with any MAOI, or within 2 weeks after discontinuing a MAOI and vice versa. Atomoxetine is one of the selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Since norepinephrine is deaminated by monoamine oxidase, administration of drugs that inhibit this enzyme concurrently with atomoxetine can lead to serious reactions. These reactions may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Use atomoxetine with caution in combination with prochlorperazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Prochlorperazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as phenylephrine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Protriptyline: (Minor) Atomoxetine should be used cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) such as protriptyline as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Tricyclic antidepressants share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) If possible, quinidine should be avoided in patients receiving atomoxetine. Coadministration of quinidine with atomoxetine may result in additive QT prolongation and increased exposure to atomoxetine. When administered as quinidine; dextromethorphan, coadministration with atomoxetine is contraindicated. Quinidine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor that is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving quinidine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving quinidine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure.
quiNINE: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Both atomoxetine and quinine are considered drugs with a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP); therefore, the combination should be used cautiously and with close monitoring. In addition, because atomoxetine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6, concurrent use of CYP2D6 inhibitors such as quinine may theoretically increase the risk of atomoxetine-induced adverse effects. Monitor for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, insomnia, and cardiac effects (e.g., hypertension, increased pulse rate, QT prolongation).
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with sympathomimetic agents such as racepinephrine. If a patient is taking atomoxetine, then they should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine. Consider monitoring the patients blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if racepinephrine inhalation is medically necessary in a patient coadministered atomoxetine.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and ranolazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Rasagiline: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (such as atomoxetine) with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concomitant use of ribociclib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concomitant use of ribociclib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and risperidone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Coadministration of rivaroxaban with other drugs that affect hemostasis, such as selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), increases the risk of bleeding. If these drugs are administered together, instruct patients to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding, and to promptly report any bleeding events to their practitioner.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if atomoxetine and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for atomoxetine-related adverse effects. Atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant is expected to persist beyond 28 days for an unknown duration. Exposure to another CYP2D6 substrate, following a single dose of rolapitant increased about 3-fold on Days 8 and Day 22. The inhibition of CYP2D6 persisted on Day 28 with a 2.3-fold increase in the CYP2D6 substrate concentrations, the last time point measured.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (such as atomoxetine) with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
Salmeterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Saquinavir: (Major) Concomitant use of saquinavir and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine and atomoxetine should be combined cautiously in patients with known cardiac disease. Scopolamine may alter the heart rate; the predominant clinical effect is sinus tachycardia. An additive effect on heart rate may occur as atomoxetine may elevate heart rate as well as blood pressure.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are contraindicated for use with selegiline because of a possible increased risk of hypertensive crisis. At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of selegiline and initiation of treatment with a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. After stopping treatment with the reuptake inhibitor, a time period equal to 4 to 5 half-lives of the reuptake inhibitor or any active metabolite should elapse before starting therapy with selegiline.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of selpercatinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and sertraline may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of siponimod and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and solifenacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of sorafenib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and sunitinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and tacrolimus may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tapentadol: (Major) Caution is advised when tapentadol is coadministered with selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. The combined use of these drugs may result in excessive concentrations of norepinephrine, increasing the risk of adverse cardiac effects. If concomitant treatment is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, especially during initiation of the second therapy and after dosage adjustments (increases) of either agent.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Terbinafine: (Major) An atomoxetine dosage reduction may be required in some patients receiving terbinafine due to the risk for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, do not exceed an atomoxetine daily dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day in children and adolescents weighing up to 70 kg or a daily dose of 80 mg/day in children and adolescents weighing more than 70 kg and all adults. Atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers, coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine increased atomoxetine overall exposure by 6- to 8-fold; this increase is similar to atomoxetine exposures observed in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. In CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine is not expected to significantly increase atomoxetine exposure.
Terbutaline: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of tetrabenazine and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of thioridazine and atomoxetine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Tipranavir: (Major) Dosage reduction of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving tipranavir due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving tipranavir, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults receiving tipranavir, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. Tipranavir is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Use caution when coadministering atomoxetine and tolterodine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Use atomoxetine with caution in combination with trifluoperazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Trimipramine: (Minor) Atomoxetine should be used cautiously with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) such as trimipramine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Tricyclic antidepressants share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and vardenafil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose. Both atomoxetine and vemurafenib are considered drugs with a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP); therefore, the combination should be used cautiously and with close monitoring. In addition, because atomoxetine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6, concurrent use of CYP2D6 inhibitors such as vemurafenib may theoretically increase the risk of atomoxetine-induced adverse effects. Monitor for adverse effects, such as dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, insomnia, and cardiac effects (e.g., hypertension, increased pulse rate, QT prolongation).
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) The concomitant use of atomoxetine and venlafaxine may lead to additive effects on blood pressure, heart rate, or QT interval prolongation. Venlafaxine is a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) and atomoxetine selectively inhibits norepinephrine reuptake; the drugs have some additive pharmacology that may lead to increases in blood pressure or heart rate. Venlafaxine is associated with a possible risk of QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Viloxazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atomoxetine and viloxazine. This combination may represent duplicate therapy and additive toxicities may occur. Additionally, atomoxetine exposure may increase. Atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and voclosporin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and voriconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

During clinical trials, atomoxetine was administered to 5,382 children and adolescents with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and 270 adults. Of the pediatric patients, 2,529 patients were treated for longer than 6 months and 1,625 patients were treated for longer than 1 year. The safety of single doses over 120 mg PO and total daily doses above 150 mg/day PO have not been systematically evaluated. The most commonly reported adverse events (5% or greater and twice the incidence vs. placebo) involved the central nervous system (CNS) and gastrointestinal tract (GI tract). In adults, genitourinary (GU) complaints were also commonly reported. Poor metabolizers (PMs) of CYP2D6 substrates have been shown to be at higher risk for adverse drug reactions. For all studies in children and adolescents, 6.3% of extensive metabolizers (EMs) and 11.2% of poor metabolizers (PMs) discontinued therapy due to an adverse event.

abnormal dreams, asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, insomnia, tremor


During clinical trials of atomoxetine in adults with ADHD, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred more frequently with atomoxetine than placebo: dizziness (8% vs. 3%), drowsiness (8% vs. 5%), abnormal dreams (4% vs. 3%), sleep disorder (3% vs. 1%), feeling jittery (2% vs. 1%), and insomnia (15% vs. 8%). In placebo-controlled clinical trials in pediatric patients, the following CNS effects occurred: drowsiness (11% vs. 4%) and dizziness (5% vs. 2%). Insomnia (0.9%) and drowsiness (0.3%) were among the most common reasons for study discontinuation in adult and/or pediatric patients. Early morning awakenings occurred at an incidence of less than 2% but greater than placebo in pediatric patients. Tremor occurred at an incidence of less than 2% but greater than placebo in adult patients. Asthenia occurred at an incidence of less than 2% but greater than placebo in both pediatric and adult patients. Certain adverse events have been noted by the manufacturer to have a greater incidence in atomoxetine poor metabolizers (PM) vs. extensive metabolizers (EM). The following CNS adverse events occurred in at least 2% of child and adolescent CYP2D6 PM patients and were statistically significantly more frequent in PM patients compared with CYP2D6 EM patients: insomnia (11% of PMs, 6% of EMs), tremor (5% of PMs, 1% of EMs), middle insomnia (3% of PMs, 1% of EMs), sedation (4% of PMs, 2% of EMs), and early morning awakening (2% of PMs, 1% of EMs). The following CNS effects occurred in at least 2% of adult CYP2D6 PMs and were statistically significantly more frequent in PM patients than CYP2D6 EM patients: feeling jittery (5% of PMs, 2% of EMs), tremor (5% of PMs, 1% of EMs), insomnia (19% of PMs, 11% of EMs), sleep disorder (7% of PMs, 3% of EMs), middle insomnia (5% of PMs, 3% of EMs), and terminal insomnia (3% of PMs, 1% of EMs).


fatigue, lethargy


During clinical trials of atomoxetine in adults with ADHD, fatigue occurred more frequently with atomoxetine than with placebo (10% vs. 6%). In clinical trials in pediatric patients, fatigue (6% to 9%) also occurred more frequently in atomoxetine-treated individuals than with placebo. Fatigue resulted in treatment discontinuation in 0.1% of children/adolescents and 0.6% of treated adults during clinical trials. Lethargy has been reported during postmarketing use.


agitation, anxiety, depression, emotional lability, hallucinations, hostility, irritability, mania, psychosis, restlessness, suicidal ideation


During clinical trials of atomoxetine in children and adolescents with ADHD, the following psychiatric effects occurred more frequently with atomoxetine than with placebo: irritability (6%) and emotional lability (mood swings 1% to 2%). Irritability (5%), agitation (less than 2%), and restlessness (less than 2%) were reported more frequently in adult atomoxetine recipients than with placebo. Emergent hostility-related adverse reactions and psychotic or manic symptoms (e.g., hallucinations, delusional thinking, or mania) were reported in pediatric patients without a prior history of a psychotic disorder or bipolar disorder receiving atomoxetine. Psychiatric adverse effects resulting in treatment discontinuation during clinical trials in pediatric patients included irritability (0.3%), aggression (0.2%), and feeling abnormal (0.1%). Discontinuation adverse events in adults included anxiety (0.4%), mood swings (0.4%), and nervousness (0.4%). Certain adverse events are noted to have a greater incidence in atomoxetine poor metabolizers (PM) vs. extensive metabolizers (EM). Depression was reported in 7% of child and adolescent CYP2D6 PMs compared with 4% of normal metabolizers. Depression, depressed mood, and anxiety have been reported during postmarketing use of the drug; these may also be co-morbid disorders in patients with ADHD. Patients receiving atomoxetine, particularly children and adolescents, should be closely monitored for clinical worsening, as well as agitation, aggressiveness, akathisia, anxiety, hostility, hypomania, mania, impulsivity, irritability, insomnia, panic attacks, suicidal thinking or behaviors, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of therapy or when the dose is changed (either increased or decreased). These symptoms may be precursors to suicidal behavior for selected patients. Comorbidities occurring with ADHD may increase the risk of suicidal ideation and/or behavior. Twelve clinical trials conducted in children with ADHD and 1 trial in children with enuresis identified an increased risk of suicidal ideation when taking atomoxetine. There was 1 suicide attempt in a treated patient among the approximately 2,200 persons in the trials (1,357 patients receiving atomoxetine and 851 receiving a placebo). The analysis showed that 0.4% of children (5 cases) treated with atomoxetine reported suicidal thinking compared to 0% with placebo. A similar analysis in adults treated with atomoxetine for either ADHD or depression found no increased risk of suicidal ideation or behavior. There were no completed suicides among children, adolescents, or adults. Care teams should discuss with parents and/or caregivers the need to actively monitor for behavioral changes. According to the Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP), atomoxetine has been reported as a frequently suspected drug in serious adverse drug events in pediatric individuals. Of the serious events reported to the FDA during a 5-year time span (2008 to 2012), psychiatric (e.g., suicidal behaviors, aggression, psychosis or psychotic episodes) and cardiac events were predominant. Because reports submitted to the FDA likely represent only a portion of actual events and may be skewed, further investigation to determine causality of the drug and incidence is needed.


headache, hypoesthesia, paresthesias


In pediatric clinical trials, headache was reported in 19% of atomoxetine recipients vs. 15% with placebo and resulted in treatment discontinuation in 0.1%. Headache was reported in 2% or more of adults receiving atomoxetine, but the incidence was similar to placebo. Paresthesias (3%) were reported in adults but not pediatric recipients. Paresthesias have been reported in children and adolescents during postmarketing use of atomoxetine. Hypoesthesia, sensory disturbances, and tics have also been reported during postmarketing use.


seizures


Neurologic effects including seizures occurred in 0.1% and 0.2% of adults and pediatrics, respectively, in clinical trials that followed premarket testing of atomoxetine. Within these trials, the seizure risk among pediatrics was greater among poor metabolizers (0.3%) than extensive metabolizers (0.2%). Causality to the drug has not been established. Seizures have been reported in those with and without risk factors for seizures or pre-existing seizure disorders during postmarketing use of the drug.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia


During clinical trials of atomoxetine in adults with ADHD, the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred more frequently with atomoxetine than placebo: xerostomia (20%), nausea (26%), constipation (8%), abdominal pain (7%), dyspepsia (4%), and vomiting (4%). In controlled clinical trials in pediatric patients, the following GI effects occurred at higher incidences than with placebo: abdominal pain (17% to 18%), vomiting (11%), nausea (7% to 13%), and constipation (1% to 2%). Dysgeusia (less than 2%) was reported in treated adults. Diarrhea was reported in 2% or more of adults receiving atomoxetine but did not occur more frequently than placebo. GI effects associated with treatment discontinuation in all populations included nausea (0.2% to 0.9%), vomiting (0.2%), abdominal pain (0.2%), and constipation (0.1%). Certain GI adverse events have been noted to have a greater incidence in atomoxetine poor metabolizers (PM) vs. extensive metabolizers (EM). Constipation has been reported in 7% of child and adolescent CYP2D6 PMs vs. 4% of CYP2D6 EMs. The following GI effects occurred in at least 2% of treated adult CYP2D6 PMs and significantly more frequent in PMs than in CYP2D6 EMs: xerostomia (35% of PMs, 17% of EMs) and constipation (11% of PMs, 7% of EMs).


dysmenorrhea, dysuria, increased urinary frequency, menstrual irregularity, pelvic pain, prostatitis, testicular pain, urinary retention, urinary urgency


During clinical trials of atomoxetine in adults with ADHD, the following genitourinary and reproductive system effects occurred more frequently with atomoxetine than placebo: urinary retention/hesitancy (6%), dysuria (2%), and dysmenorrhea (3%). Menstrual irregularity, urinary urgency, pollakiuria (increased urinary frequency), prostatitis, and testicular pain occurred at an incidence of less than 2% in treated adults. In adult trials, urinary retention (0.4%) was among the most common reasons for study discontinuation. Certain adverse events have been noted to have a greater incidence in atomoxetine poor metabolizers (PM) vs. extensive metabolizers (EM). Urinary retention occurred in at least 2% of adult CYP2D6 PMs and was statistically significantly more frequent than in CYP2D6 EM patients (6% of PMs, 1% of EMs). Urinary hesitation and urinary retention have been reported in children and adolescents during postmarketing use. Male pelvic pain has also been reported during postmarketing use of the drug.


hypertension


Atomoxetine may cause hypertension. Results from clinical trial data indicate that the following increases in blood pressure occurred at any one time during clinical trial evaluation or at study endpoint in adult patients receiving atomoxetine versus placebo, respectively: increased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of 15 mmHg or more (4.8% to 12.6% vs. 3.5% to 8.7%) and increased systolic blood pressure (SBP) of 20 mmHg or more (4.2% to 12.4% vs. 3.2% to 7.8%). In pediatric patients, the following increases in blood pressure occurred at any one time during clinical trial evaluation or at study endpoint in patients receiving atomoxetine versus placebo, respectively: increased DBP of 15 mmHg or more (9.3% to 21.5% vs. 4.8% to 14.1%) and increased SBP of 20 mmHg or more (4.9% to 12.5% vs. 3.3% to 8.7%). In trials with adults where patient metabolizer status was accessible, poor metabolizers (PMs) of atomoxetine had higher average increases from baseline in both DBP and SBP compared to extensive metabolizers (EMs), with DBP increases of 4.21 mmHg vs. 2.13 mmHg and SBP increases of 2.75 mmHg vs. 2.4 mmHg. Blood pressure measurements should be obtained at baseline, after dose increases, and periodically throughout atomoxetine therapy in all atomoxetine recipients.


orthostatic hypotension, syncope


During clinical trials, cardiovascular adverse reactions included orthostatic hypotension and syncope. Orthostatic hypotension (0.2% to 1.8%) and syncope (0.8%) were reported during controlled trials in pediatric patients. Syncope has also been reported postmarketing in both treated adults and children/adolescents. There appears to be a greater incidence in atomoxetine poor metabolizers (PMs) vs. extensive metabolizers (EMs); syncope was reported in 3% of child/adolescent CYP2D6 PMs and 1% of CYP2D6 EMs. According to the Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP), atomoxetine has been reported as a frequently suspected drug in serious adverse drug events in children. Of the serious events reported to the FDA during a 5-year time span (2008 to 2012), psychiatric and cardiac (e.g., syncope, chest pain, ECG changes) events were predominant. Because reports submitted to the FDA likely represent only a portion of actual events and may be skewed, further investigation is warranted. Monitor blood pressure and pulse regularly during treatment. Patients who develop symptoms such as unexplained syncope, or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease during atomoxetine treatment, should undergo a prompt cardiac evaluation.


sinus tachycardia


Results from clinical trial data indicate that 10.2% to 22.4% of adult atomoxetine recipients experienced an increase in heart rate of at least 20 beats per minute (bpm) at any 1 time during clinical trial evaluation or at study endpoint at a greater incidence than with placebo. In pediatric patients receiving atomoxetine, 12.2% to 23.4% experienced increases in heart rate of at least 20 bpm. Sinus tachycardia was observed in 1.5% of adult atomoxetine recipients. In pediatric patients, sinus tachycardia was observed in 0.3% of atomoxetine-treated patients and 0% with placebo. Mean increases in heart rate were higher among pediatric poor metabolizers (PMs) than with extensive metabolizers (EMs), reported as increases of 9.4 bpm and 5 bpm, respectively. In clinical trials with adults where patient metabolizer status was accessible, adult PMs of atomoxetine had significantly higher mean increases in heart rate compared to adult EMs (increases of 11 bpm compared to 7.5 bpm). These differences may be clinically significant in some patients. Pulse and blood pressure measurements should be obtained at baseline, after dose increases, and periodically throughout atomoxetine therapy. Any unexplained heart rate increases or other cardiac events should be promptly investigated.


chest pain (unspecified), myocardial infarction, palpitations, stroke


During clinical trials of ADHD in adults, cardiovascular adverse reactions occurring more frequently with atomoxetine than with placebo included palpitations (3%). In adult trials, palpitations (0.4%) and chest pain (unspecified) (0.6%) were among the most common reasons for study discontinuation. Palpitations were reported in less than 2% of pediatric atomoxetine recipients during clinical trials, but were reported more commonly than with placebo. Cardiovascular (CV) events, including sudden death, have been associated with atomoxetine use in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems. CV effects associated with atomoxetine use in adults and pediatric patients range in severity from mild to life-threatening and include sinus tachycardia (less than 2%), hypertension, orthostasis, syncope, myocardial infarction (adults), stroke (adults), and a prolonged QT interval.  According to the Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP), atomoxetine has been reported as a frequently suspected drug in serious adverse drug events in children. Of the serious events reported to the FDA during a 5-year time span (2008 to 2012), psychiatric events and cardiac events (e.g., chest pain, syncope or fainting, prolonged QT interval) were predominant for atomoxetine. Because reports submitted to the FDA likely represent only a portion of actual events, further investigation is warranted. Atomoxetine recipients who develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain (unspecified), unexplained syncope, or other symptoms suggestive of CV events during treatment should stop taking atomoxetine and undergo a prompt cardiac evaluation. Minor manifestations of these symptoms may indicate a need for dosage reduction or discontinuation. Monitor blood pressure and pulse at baseline, after dosage increases, and periodically throughout atomoxetine therapy.


QT prolongation


QT prolongation has been reported during postmarketing use of atomoxetine. A randomized, double-blind, crossover trial involving 120 healthy males who were CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs) assessed the effect of atomoxetine on QT prolongation. Positive (moxifloxacin 400 mg) and placebo controls were used. Subjects received atomoxetine twice daily (20 mg and 60 mg) for 1 week. No large QTc interval changes (greater than 60 msec from baseline, absolute QTc greater than 480 msec) were detected. Small QTc interval changes cannot be ruled out, as the trial failed to establish assay sensitivity. A slight increase in QTc interval was seen with increased atomoxetine concentration. An open-label, unpublished study noted a clinically insignificant decrease of 4.8 msec in mean Fridericia corrected QT interval from baseline in patients taking atomoxetine. One case report describes a QTc interval of 607 msec in a patient 15 years of age after ingestion of 1,200 mg of atomoxetine; subsequently, the QTc interval decreased to 435 msec. According to the Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP), atomoxetine has been reported as a frequently suspected drug in serious adverse drug events in children. Of the serious events reported to the FDA during a 5-year time span (2008 to 2012), psychiatric events and cardiac events (e.g., chest pain, syncope or fainting, QT interval prolongation) were predominant for atomoxetine. Because reports submitted to the FDA likely represent only a portion of actual events, further investigation is warranted. Pulse and blood pressure measurements should be obtained at baseline, after dose increases, and periodically throughout atomoxetine therapy. Atomoxetine recipients who develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain (unspecified), unexplained syncope, or other symptoms suggestive of CV events during treatment should stop taking atomoxetine and undergo a prompt cardiac evaluation.


chills, peripheral vasoconstriction


During clinical trials of atomoxetine in adults with ADHD, chills (3%) occurred more frequently with atomoxetine than with placebo. Peripheral coldness and feeling cold occurred at an incidence less than 2% but greater than placebo in adult trials. Certain adverse events have been noted to have a greater incidence in atomoxetine poor metabolizers (PM) vs. extensive metabolizers (EM). Peripheral coldness occurred in at least 2% of adult CYP2D6 PMs and was more frequent in PMs than EMs (3% of PMs, 1% of EMs). Raynaud's phenomenon (peripheral vasoconstriction of new onset and exacerbation of preexisting condition) has been reported during postmarketing use.


flushing, hot flashes, hyperhidrosis


During clinical trials of atomoxetine in adults with ADHD, the following dermatologic effects occurred more frequently with atomoxetine than placebo: hyperhidrosis (4%) and hot flashes/flushes (3%). Flushing occurred in less than 2% of pediatric patients at a higher incidence than with placebo. Certain adverse events have been noted to have a greater incidence in atomoxetine poor metabolizers (PM) vs. extensive metabolizers (EM). Excoriation was reported in 4% of child and adolescent CYP2D6 PMs vs. 2% of CYP2D6 EMs. Hyperhidrosis occurred in at least 2% of adult CYP2D6 PMs and was statistically significantly more frequent than in CYP2D6 EM adults (15% of PMs, 7% of EMs). Hyperhidrosis has been reported during postmarketing use.


ejaculation dysfunction, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, orgasm dysfunction, priapism


Atomoxetine may cause libido changes and impair sexual functioning in some patients. During clinical trials of atomoxetine in adults with ADHD, the following effects occurred more frequently with atomoxetine than placebo: impotence (erectile dysfunction) (8%), ejaculation dysfunction (4%), and libido decrease (3%). Orgasm dysfunction (less than 2%) was reported more often than with placebo in adult trials. Erectile dysfunction resulted in treatment discontinuation in 0.4% of male adult atomoxetine recipients. Incidences of sexual dysfunction are likely to be under-reported in controlled clinical trials since these specific effects have not been systematically evaluated. Frequent or prolonged erections and priapism have been reported during postmarketing use of stimulant medications, as well as with atomoxetine. Reported cases of priapism have occurred after a period of time on stimulant therapy and often after a dose increase. Priapism has also been reported during periods of drug withdrawal (e.g., drug holidays or discontinuation). Priapism appears to occur more commonly during atomoxetine administration than methylphenidate administration, although the exact frequency for either product is unknown. Prolonged erections should be promptly reported, as immediate diagnosis and treatment are essential to avoid tissue damage. Certain adverse events have been noted to have a greater incidence in atomoxetine poor metabolizers (PMs) vs. extensive metabolizers (EMs). The following effects occurred in at least 2% of adult CYP2D6 PMs and were statistically significantly more frequent in PMs than EMs: erectile dysfunction (21%) and ejaculation disorder (6%).


blurred vision, conjunctivitis, mydriasis


Mydriasis was reported in less than 2% of pediatric patients during clinical trials but occurred in more atomoxetine-treated patients than placebo-treated patients. Mydriasis may occur in patients of any age, and the drug is not recommended for those with narrow-angle glaucoma. Certain adverse events have been noted by the manufacturer to have a greater incidence in atomoxetine poor metabolizers (PM) vs. extensive metabolizers (EM). The following ophthalmic adverse events occurred in at least 2% of child and adolescent CYP2D6 PM patients and were statistically significantly more frequent in PM patients compared with CYP2D6 EM patients: conjunctivitis (3% of PMs, 1% of EMs) and mydriasis (2% of PMs, 1% of EMs). Blurred vision was statistically significantly more frequent in adult CP2D6 PMs than in CYP2D6 EM patients (4% of PMs, 1% of EMs).


anorexia, growth inhibition, weight loss


During clinical trials of atomoxetine in adults with ADHD, decreased appetite (11%) and weight loss (2%) occurred more frequently with atomoxetine than placebo. In controlled clinical trials in pediatric patients, weight loss (3%), decreased appetite (16%), and anorexia (3%) were more frequent with atomoxetine treatment than with placebo. Certain adverse events have been noted to have a greater incidence in atomoxetine poor metabolizers (PM) vs. extensive metabolizers (EM). Weight loss occurred in at least 2% of child/adolescent CYP2D6 PMs and statistically more frequently than in CYP2D6 EMs (7% vs. 4%). Decreased appetite occurred in at least 2% of adult CYP2D6 PMs and was statistically significantly more frequent in PMs than in EMs (23% vs. 15%). The potential for growth inhibition should be monitored in pediatric patients during continued therapy with atomoxetine; monitor height and weight at treatment initiation and periodically thereafter. Short-term (9-week) studies have shown that up to 3.5% of body weight can be lost, and this loss may be dose-related. In a fixed-dose controlled trial, 1.3%, 7.1%, 19.3%, and 29.1% of pediatric atomoxetine recipients lost at least 3.5% of their body weight in the placebo, 0.5, 1.2, and 1.8 mg/kg/day dose groups, respectively. The weight and height gain of pediatric patients treated with atomoxetine lags behind that predicted by normative population data for the first 9 to 12 months of treatment; subsequently, weight gain rebounds at about 3 years of treatment. After about 12 months, the gain in height stabilizes, and at 3 years, pediatric patients have gained only slightly less (0.4 cm) than predicted. Growth patterns are similar regardless of pubertal status; however, mean weight gain has been shown to be slower for PMs vs. EMs (2.4 kg less vs. 0.2 kg less than predicted, respectively), while height gain is similar between PMs and EMs (1.1 cm less vs. 0.4 cm less than predicted, respectively).


alopecia, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, pruritus, rash, urticaria


The risk for allergic reactions is possible with any drug, although allergic reactions were uncommon in clinical trials with atomoxetine. Angioedema, rash, anaphylactoid reactions, and urticaria have been reported in patients taking atomoxetine. In pediatric studies, rash was reported in 2% of those receiving active drug versus 1% of those on placebo. Rash, pruritus (which may be dose related), and urticaria were reported in less than 2% of adult patients receiving active drug and more frequently than placebo. Alopecia was reported during postmarketing use.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice


Postmarketing reports have included rare cases of severe idiosyncratic liver injury (hepatotoxicity), including jaundice, hepatitis, hepatic fibrosis, and hepatic necrosis. Concurrent laboratory abnormalities have included significantly elevated hepatic enzymes (e.g., more than 20 times the upper limit of normal [ULN]) and bilirubin (e.g., more than 2 times ULN). One patient experienced elevations in hepatic enzymes of up to 40 times ULN and jaundice with hyperbilirubinemia up to 12 times ULN with a recurrence upon rechallenge. In an FDA review of 6 postmarketing cases of severe liver injury, 5 occurred in pediatric patients. The onset of symptoms ranged from 21 to 730 days after treatment initiation, with a median onset of 62.5 days. Four of the patients recovered after atomoxetine discontinuation. One adult male patient died as a result of hepatic failure and renal failure; however, causality to atomoxetine could not be definitively established. During preapproval clinical trials, severe hepatotoxicity was not reported; however, 41 postmarketing cases were identified as having hepatobiliary events requiring additional analysis. The mechanism of atomoxetine-induced hepatic injury is unknown, and the incidence is uncertain due to probable under-reporting of postmarketing adverse events. Symptoms that are indicative of liver injury include unexplained flu-like symptoms (musculoskeletal pain, chills), fatigue, loss of appetite, pain in the right upper quadrant of the stomach, pruritus, nausea/vomiting, jaundice of the sclera or skin, or dark-colored urine. Monitoring of liver function tests is not routinely recommended for those who take atomoxetine. However, patients should be informed of the signs and symptoms of liver toxicity and should be instructed to promptly report such effects to their health care provider. Discontinue atomoxetine in any patient who exhibits jaundice or laboratory evidence of liver injury: atomoxetine should not be restarted in these patients.


back pain, muscle cramps


During clinical trials of atomoxetine in adults with ADHD, muscle cramps (less than 2%) occurred at an incidence greater than placebo. Back pain occurred in 2% or more of adults receiving atomoxetine, but not more frequently than placebo.


rhabdomyolysis


Rhabdomyolysis has been reported with postmarketing use of atomoxetine.


Description

Atomoxetine is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI) and was the first nonstimulant drug approved for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It is structurally similar to fluoxetine, does not have a potential for abuse, and is not classified as a controlled substance. Atomoxetine has been shown to be safe and effective for ADHD per DSM-IV criteria (for inattentive subtype and both inattentive and hyperactive/impulsive subtypes) and has been used in adult and pediatric patients 6 years and older. Well-controlled comparative data with stimulants are limited. However, when compared with stimulants (effect size = 1), atomoxetine has an effect size of 0.7. While atomoxetine is effective for the management of ADHD in many patients, the body of evidence supporting its use is smaller than traditional psychostimulants. Atomoxetine has a slower onset to action than the stimulants; the onset of effect may take 1 week; and full effect may not be seen for up to 4 weeks on a given target dose. Atomoxetine may be considered an alternate ADHD therapy in patients where psychostimulants are not an option or if initially preferred by parents and/or health care provider. Atomoxetine is a particularly attractive treatment option due to its lack of substance abuse potential. In patients with co-morbid anxiety disorder, the drug has been noted to not increase anxiety symptoms in some studies. However, clinical guidelines generally recommend the use of the stimulants (e.g., methylphenidate, dextroamphetamine, or amphetamine salts), in combination with behavioral therapy, as first-line treatment in ADHD. Although it is not a stimulant medication, atomoxetine has been reported to increase blood pressure and heart rate and has been associated with rare sudden death in children with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart conditions. The American Heart Association (AHA) recommends careful screening of pediatric patients prior to initiating pharmacologic therapy for ADHD. Rare reports of drug-induced liver injury have been reported during atomoxetine treatment. There have also been reports of suicidal thinking in children and adolescents being treated for ADHD with atomoxetine and product labels carry a boxed warning regarding an increased risk of suicidality in children and adolescent; monitor treated patients for changes in moods or behaviors. Atomoxetine was FDA-approved in November 2002.

Mechanism Of Action

Although the precise mechanism by which atomoxetine produces beneficial effects in ADHD is unknown, it is thought that the drug exerts its effect through selective inhibition of the pre-synaptic norepinephrine (NE) transporter. Commercial atomoxetine products contain the R(-) isomer of the racemic compound, which is a 9-fold more potent inhibitor of the NE transporter relative to the S(+) isomer. Atomoxetine selectively inhibits the neuronal reuptake of NE, increasing availability in the central nervous system. It is hypothesized that the atomoxetine-induced increase in NE in the prefrontal cortex, a region involved in attention and memory, mediates improvements in higher cognitive functions that are often impaired in individuals with ADHD and improved with medication treatment. Atomoxetine has minimal to no affinity for other neurotransmitter transporter or receptor sites (e.g., dopamine or serotonin). However, studies have indicated that atomoxetine increases extracellular levels of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex, which is believed to be the result of atomoxetine modulation of cortical synaptic dopamine uptake via the NE transporter.

Pharmacokinetics

Atomoxetine is administered orally. The volume of distribution is roughly 0.85 L/kg indicating that atomoxetine distributes primarily into total body water. Atomoxetine is 98% protein-bound, primarily to albumin. Extensive metabolizers (EM) of CYP2D6 metabolized drugs are those with a normal metabolic pathway for atomoxetine. Poor metabolizers (PM) of CYP2D6 have reduced activity via this pathway, leading to elevated levels of atomoxetine. The major oxidative metabolite of atomoxetine is 4-hydroxyatomoxetine, regardless of CYP2D6 status; however, 4-hydroxyatomoxetine is formed at a slower rate by several other CYP isoenzymes in PMs. 4-Hydroxyatomoxetine is as potent as atomoxetine, but circulates in much lower concentrations (i.e., 1% of atomoxetine concentration in EM and 0.1% in PM). A second metabolite, N-desmethylatomoxetine, is formed by CYP2C19 and other isoenzymes, but has substantially less pharmacological activity compared with atomoxetine and circulates in plasma at lower concentrations (5% of atomoxetine concentration in EMs and 45% of atomoxetine concentration in PMs). Plasma clearance of atomoxetine in adult EMs is 0.35 L/kg/hour and the elimination half-life is 5.2 hours, but in PMs the clearance drops to 0.03 L/kg/hour and the half-life increases to 21.6 hours. With once-daily dosing of atomoxetine, plasma drug concentrations are low in most patients by late afternoon (half-life of 4 hours in EM). Biotransformation is extensive, with less than 3% of a dose being excreted as the parent drug. Atomoxetine is excreted primarily in the urine (greater than 80%) as 4-hydroxyatomoxetine-O-glucuronide and is excreted to a lesser extent in the feces (less than 17%).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6
Atomoxetine is a primary substrate of CYP2D6. Atomoxetine has not been shown to inhibit or induce CYP enzymes 1A2, 3A, 2D6, or 2C9. Dosage adjustments of atomoxetine are recommended in pediatric and adult patients who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (CYP2D6 PMs). Increases in atomoxetine exposure are also seen when people who are atomoxetine EMs receive a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor along with atomoxetine; a dosage adjustment may be necessary.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Atomoxetine is rapidly absorbed from the GI tract. Drugs that elevate gastric pH have not been shown to affect atomoxetine bioavailability. The Cmax occurs 1 to 2 hours after dosing. Food does not affect the overall extent of absorption (AUC) of atomoxetine in adults, but does reduce the rate of absorption, reducing Cmax by 37% and Tmax by 3 hours. No clinically significant differences in pharmacokinetics of atomoxetine were observed after administration of atomoxetine solution and immediate-release atomoxetine capsules under fasted conditions.

Hepatic Impairment

The AUC for atomoxetine is increased 2-fold in patients who are extensive metabolizers (EM) with moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment and 4-fold in severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment compared to patients who are EM with normal hepatic function. Dosage adjustments are required in patients with hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Patients who are extensive metabolizers (EM) and have end-stage renal disease had higher (65% increase) systemic exposure to atomoxetine compared with healthy subjects, but there was no difference when exposure was adjusted for mg/kg dose. No dosage adjustments are necessary for renal impairment.

Pediatrics

The pharmacokinetic parameters of atomoxetine in adolescents and children 6 years and older are similar to those in adults. When doses were normalized to a mg/kg basis, similar half-life, Cmax, and AUC values were observed in children, adolescents, and adults. Clearance and volume of distribution after adjustment for body weight was also similar.

Geriatric

The pharmacokinetics of atomoxetine has not been evaluated in the geriatric population.

Other

CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers (CYP2D6 PMs)
Consider genetic testing to determine CYP2D6 metabolizer status prior to initiation of treatment. Atomoxetine is metabolized primarily via the CYP2D6 enzymatic pathway, and people with reduced activity in this pathway (PMs) have higher plasma concentrations of atomoxetine compared with people with normal activity (EMs). For CYP2D6 PMs, AUC of atomoxetine is approximately 10-fold and maximal steady-state concentration is about 5-fold greater than EMs. Approximately 7% of the Caucasian population are PMs. The blood concentrations in PMs are similar to those attained by taking strong inhibitors of CYP2D6. The higher blood concentrations in PMs lead to a higher rate of some adverse effects of atomoxetine.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Atomoxetine is an ocular irritant. If contact with the eye occurs, instruct the patients to immediately flush the affected eye with water and seek medical advice. Hands or contaminated surfaces should be washed promptly.
Administer as a single daily dose in the morning or in evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. Patients who have insomnia due to the medication should take the last dose of the day before 6 PM.
Missed dose: Take the dose as soon as possible, but do not take more than the prescribed total daily amount of atomoxetine in any 24-hour period.


Oral Solid Formulations


Administer capsules whole; do not open, cut, crush, or chew.
May give with or without food. If nausea occurs, it may be helpful to administer after a meal.


Oral Liquid Formulations


Take with or without food.
Use supplied syringe and bottle adapter to measure and take atomoxetine solution.
Storage: Discard any unused atomoxetine solution 45 days after first opening the bottle.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

100 mg/day PO for ADHD; 36 mg/day PO has been suggested for neurogenic orthostatic hypotension.

Geriatric

36 mg/day PO has been suggested for neurogenic orthostatic hypotension. Safety and efficacy have not been established for ADHD.

Adolescents

weighing more than 70 kg: 100 mg/day PO.
weighing 70 kg or less: 1.4 mg/kg/day PO (Max: 100 mg/day PO).

Children

6 to 12 years weighing more than 70 kg: 100 mg/day PO.
6 to 12 years weighing 70 kg or less: 1.4 mg/kg/day PO (Max: 100 mg/day PO).
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Atomoxetine 4mg/1mL Oral solution

Atomoxetine Hydrochloride 100mg Oral capsule

Atomoxetine Hydrochloride 10mg Oral capsule

Atomoxetine Hydrochloride 18mg Oral capsule

Atomoxetine Hydrochloride 25mg Oral capsule

Atomoxetine Hydrochloride 40mg Oral capsule

Atomoxetine Hydrochloride 60mg Oral capsule

Atomoxetine Hydrochloride 80mg Oral capsule

Atoncy 4mg/mL Solution

Strattera 25mg Capsule

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B): Reduce initial and target dosage by 50% of normal.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C): Reduce initial and target dosage by 75% of normal.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier